---
title: Spring Festival 08
date: 2008-02-14 12:51:23+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- parents
- changsha
translationKey: spring-festival-08
slug: spring-festival-08
source_hash: b567b07b41e075926fe0b5c6a987d3b93d099ae130f3774fe3662afd28547009
---

After a nearly 60-hour delayed train journey, a 40-minute long-distance bus ride, around 2 hours on the local bus, and a 15-minute motorcycle trip, I finally arrived home. My parents look much older, especially my father. Communication with my parents has always been minimal; our family has always been introverted. We keep many things to ourselves. But this year, there was one thing both my parents brought up, even my younger brother mentioned it: I should find a girlfriend and consider marriage. Of course, this has been brought up before, but when it is mentioned face-to-face with my family, I feel immense pressure. When visiting relatives, everyone asks if I'm dating. I almost ended up going on a blind date.

Then there's the reminder from my parents that I need to be frugal this year and save more money, perhaps even consider buying a house in Changsha because marriage is on the horizon.

In my heart, I agree with my parents. However, the lifestyle I want isn't like that. In fact, I'm not even sure what kind of life I want—just a vague direction, but I believe it's the right one. I don't want to obsessively pursue money, nor do I want to consider buying a house. Regarding marriage, I won't seek it due to external pressures but will let it happen naturally. I'm well aware that I still have many weaknesses and am not yet equipped with the responsibility or capability to support a family. I want to wander for another two years and live in Beijing for a year.

At home, I feel conflicted and miserable. I think I'm selfish. During a conversation with Winter Melon, he comforted me by saying: Be filial to your parents, but don't be bound by their generation's values.

On the evening of the third day of the new year, my father once again suggested I should pursue a career in teaching. He mentioned an acquaintance who got lucky and, after some effort, found a job at a nearby school where they were given housing, and this year bought a small car for around 30 to 40 thousand. "Stability," my father mentioned more than once. Back when I was a freshman, my father suggested I become a teacher, and hasn't given up on that idea since. This time, I confidently retorted: I'd consider teaching once I no longer have financial pressures. A good teacher should be earnest in teaching students. If it's for stability or money, such a teacher wouldn't be good and could harm the children. My father had nothing more to say and probably won't bring up teaching again.

Life at home was the same as previous years—eating, drinking, warming by the fire, watching TV... My spiritual life was in chaos; I didn't read a single passage from the Bible. On the fourth, a Sunday, Winter Melon, his mom, and I went to a small church in town for service. It was my first time attending a rural church gathering, and it was very moving. Elderly men, elderly women, middle-aged women, young men, little children... different people, but all listened attentively. The sermons were excellent, delivered in plain language with examples drawn from everyday rural life. When singing hymns, they sang in dialect, and I didn't catch on at first. Later, we went to a sister's home for a meal; she has three daughters, two of whom are in college. Despite their humble home, the family was very happy, content, and joyful.

I felt they were full of hope for life.

Once again, it made me ponder: Is happiness related to money and material wealth?

Since the third day of the new year, I've been trying to get a return train ticket. On the fifth, I went to the train station to queue up. It was no surprise: no tickets. I immediately took Peng Lishan back to school. Almost three years out of school, it felt like a long-awaited return. The campus was very quiet, and I walked around on those familiar paths alone, filled with nostalgia. Naturally, I reminisced about the romance two years ago—those memories are beautiful. Youth, I've drifted two more years away from it. In recent years, every time I mention the word "youth," it always stirs endless sadness because it keeps moving further away from me, until one day when I am no longer young. Thinking of university life: attending classes, dorm life, pulling all-nighters for projects, skipping classes, playing soccer; thinking of classmates, Lao Zhang, Lao Peng, Chen Bin, Xiao Sun, Lu Di, Wang Tao, Lao Zhao, Han Banban... both friends and foes, the times of harmony and conflict, are beautiful in reminiscence, and I'm also curious about what you all are doing lately?

Walking on the campus paths, looking at the buildings, I pondered: What should students really learn in the four years of college? What should universities offer? For subjects focusing on skills and technology, it's unquestionable that students should be taught those skills. Personally, I believe for most students, the university should help them understand through four years of college life what beauty is, what love is—courage, kindness, integrity, self-confidence. A school shouldn't be a commercial place! Perhaps one day I'll be involved in education.

On the afternoon of the fifth, I met with my sister. We hadn't met in two years. We talked about our lives and more about faith. I truly hope my sister will one day have faith and rely on it to lead a peaceful and joyful life. I feel very regretful because my faith is weak, and when I talk with her about faith, it feels so feeble. I genuinely hope that he who holds great power will watch over my sister. Thanks God.

I stayed overnight at Wang Tao's house. We were good friends during freshman year, but had some misunderstandings in the second semester of sophomore year and didn't connect until after graduation at a farewell party, where a toast resolved past grievances, and we reconciled. It was just a small matter. Now, we're good friends again. He's a serious person about life. Found a wife, bought a house, and is living happily. Haha. That night, I slept on the couch at their place, and it felt good—a feeling that having one's own house must be nice. But I won't live solely to own a house. I chatted with Wang Tao about various topics in media, finding some similarities with the internet. We also talked quite a bit about his life; mine was discussed less, but I felt both our lives are quite tough, yet fulfilling. In the morning, I had dumplings made by his mom, which were delicious. This visit was very rushed, and I forgot to bring a small gift. I'll make up for it in a few days.

Writing all these words took two hours, so I won't go into details. Here's a general recap:

February 3rd, snow in Hangzhou.

February 4th, 4 PM train. Queued and was told of a delay until noon on the 5th.

February 5th, noon, queued and was told the delay was until 4 PM; at 4 PM, told it was delayed until 6 PM; at 6 PM, told it was delayed until 8:50 PM; finally departed at 8:50 PM.

February 6th, train queued for two hours at Zhuzhou station to enter the station. (Stuck near home, of all places)

February 7th, celebrated the new year at my grandmother's. Relations with my uncle's family aren't good; it's like we're strangers. Grandma is seriously ill, perhaps...

February 9th, at uncles'. During New Year's Eve visits, I was asked if I brought a girlfriend back. I teasingly said I did, and as a result, on February 9th, everyone was expecting my girlfriend to show up, with red envelopes prepared. Haha

February 10th, attended service at the small town church. In the afternoon, chatted with Winter Melon.

February 11th, revisited my alma mater.

Wang Tao

My sister

February 12th, booked a flight, met with Xiami's grandma; met with Huahua.

Huahua

Brother Hai (helping three women with their bags, impressive)

February 13th, returned to Hangzhou. Did some cleaning. Organizing things—living in a small space isn't so bad.

February 14th, back to work.
