---
title: Third Quarter of 2011
date: 2011-09-26 14:58:31+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflection
translationKey: third-quarter-of-2011
slug: third-quarter-of-2011
source_hash: 5bbf7fa8eb38409f988929060ff05936ada2204e7a095ef8e4b50fc122b3d7ab
---

This is the first time I've dreaded autumn. 
Indeed, the crisp, clear days are here, but with the changing weather, worsening rhinitis and dry eye syndrome leave me far from "enjoying" it. And then there's the pesky cold sore at the corner of my mouth. Despite sticking to my 6:30 AM basketball routine, come evening, I'm thoroughly exhausted.

-

This is the life I chose for myself, stepping away from a stable, inefficient, and chaotic environment. Surely, the current situation isn't optimistic—at least that's my view—though there have been some exciting moments along the way.

-

"What am I doing? What do I want to do? What am I capable of doing?" These are questions I can't avoid but am unable to answer right now.

-

I've been estranged from my faith for a long time, like a fish out of water, drifting through the sky. "God has not treated me poorly, despite my frequent denial"—this thought suddenly occurred to me during a low point in my faith. It's true, after reflecting on the past week or two, they seem like a "valley of the shadow of death": insecurity, doubt, speculation, lack of assurance, judgment, greed, despair, indulgence, numbness, negativity, lack of discipline, and so on.

-

"No matter how the external world changes, you must move forward at your own pace"—one day, I told myself this. It’s been three months now since June 30th. A quarter has passed just like that—so fast!

-

Alright, dear boss, I hope you hold up your end of the deal, because I'm running out of time that I've set aside for you and myself.
