---
title: Thanksgiving Reflections 2018
date: 2018-11-20 10:25:13+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- thanksgiving
translationKey: thanksgiving-reflections-2018
slug: thanksgiving-reflections-2018
source_hash: 7d92a6ee4dcae3a318c37fcb5f372aa41a3857c7991d40e21b91e4e16365c51d
---

1. At age 35, in 2018, I found inner peace compared to the past (though there's always been a struggle). Whether it concerns the future of my family, children's education, rich or poor, left or right, I've learned to accept it all, with anxiety gradually decreasing.
2. Thank the Lord that I have the hope of eternal life. Therefore, I have peace and joy;
3. Thank the Lord, in September our family began to regularly hold family worship sessions, with one stretch lasting over three weeks. This was a breakthrough after many years;
4. Thank the Lord, this year my wife and I have had more conversations about family, work, health, and more;
5. Thank God for providing our family with daily bread. We not only lack nothing, but we also have surplus;
6. Thank the Lord, from the second half of the year, I began driving to work. After trying several different time slots, I found the one that works best. Driving myself, I have more time freedom. Additionally, we secured a permanent parking spot (the property manager switched my weekday spot for a narrow, less desirable one by the entrance, supposedly for his son. This helped improve my parking skills and secured a fixed spot. Looking back, I am truly thankful);
7. Thank the Lord for the work-related challenges in 2018, helping me handle interpersonal relationships within my team;
8. Thank the Lord for giving me a calm attitude to communicate with colleagues and leaders;
9. Thank the Lord for my continued health. After an accident in December 2017, I started to notice when my body needed rest daily. The year-end check-up in 2018 revealed areas of my health that needed rest and adjustment;
10. Thank the Lord for a family trip in July, including my family, my brother's family, and my parents;
11. Thank the Lord for a deep conversation with my dad in November about "difficult decisions in life";
12. Thank the Lord for granting my daughter, Yilin, wisdom in her studies and piano practice; she's becoming more understanding and considerate of her family;
13. Thank the Lord for blessing my son, Anran, with cuteness and health;
14. Thank the Lord for the harmony in our family, for family members loving and bearing with each other;
15. Thank the Lord for protecting my marriage, helping me overcome personal desires, staying vigilant against various temptations. Also, for the mutual tolerance, care, and support between my spouse and me;
