---
title: A Few Things About Chinese New Year 2019
date: 2019-02-10 14:15:04+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- family
- changsha
translationKey: a-few-things-about-chinese-new-year-2019
slug: a-few-things-about-chinese-new-year-2019
source_hash: 87b6f36dbfa78daf51309d4ff2ed8481b87c193a0d06de4984282bfe2dc3ad6c
---

### Spending Time with Parents

I started boarding school in the second year of middle school, and over the following two decades, I spent very little time living with my parents, especially after starting work. The longest time I spend with them each year is only about two weeks.

Perhaps I've been too independent, with a rebellious and dissenting attitude towards my parents ingrained in me, making my relationship with them feel distant. After having my own children, I've started to reflect from a different perspective: if my son treats me like this in the future, it would be quite sad. This has made me introspective.

My parents are truly getting old. How much more time can we live together? Especially since we only have less than ten days a year to spend with each other. I think, in the next decade or so, if I don't have enough time to live with, communicate with, and take care of my parents, it will certainly be a source of regret for me.

When sitting by the fire, there were moments when I really wanted to move back to Changsha just for my parents. Although these fleeting impulses were eventually diluted by more complex considerations, it's clear that spending time with my parents will occupy an increasingly significant place in my future life.

### Sharing the Gospel with Family & Relatives

Initially, I hoped to share the gospel with specific family members, but in reality, there wasn't any concrete action. At most, I mentioned terms like "church," "Christian faith," and "Jesus" in front of a few relatives. As a result, the attempt to evangelize was unsuccessful. However, compared to last year, there has been some progress; this change is in my perspective and attitude toward my relatives.

Even though they're relatives, when everyone sits together, the interactions are very superficial: shallow teasing, jokes, and small talk. No one shares personal joys for fear of others being envious or gossiping, nor do they discuss the troubles of life, as the speaker doesn't want to air family grievances, and the listener doesn't want to invite trouble.

This year, when I approached my relatives with the intention of sharing the gospel and with a heart of love, my emotions changed significantly. The elders' aging, their emptiness, their love (or deep concern) for their children, the peers' pressures, and the lack of methods in child education, among others.

I hope to engage in more conversations with my relatives, get to know each other's lives more deeply, and establish relationships (if I have some free time this year, I want to invite a few elders to visit Shanghai).

### Reading - Biography of Isobel Kuhn

During the Spring Festival, I managed to finish this book in between moments (even carried it when visiting relatives). Isobel Kuhn was a missionary who came to China in the early 20th century and dedicated herself to the gospel ministry among the Lisu people in Yunnan. Brother Kuhn's journey of faith has greatly touched and inspired me.

I plan to write a review afterward. Here, I'd like to quickly note a few points:

1. Any excuse not to spread the gospel is against conscience and utterly shameful;
2. The power of prayer and intercession; (I've neglected this before, but I need to practice prayer. Put everything in prayer)
3. Patience and waiting like a farmer: plowing, seeding, waiting; (I often can't help but dig up the soil to see if it has sprouted)
4. Faith and the gospel require sacrifice; (My faith life has been too easy)

Honestly, I don't really enjoy reading, but being able to calm down and read is a very satisfying experience. It's a complete, continuous, immersive experience. In contrast, scrolling through social media or browsing public accounts is too fragmented.

### Long-Distance Driving

A one-way trip of 1,100 kilometers, with a stop halfway at a city for an overnight rest and a bit of simple sightseeing. On the way to Changsha, we played and rested in Jingdezhen; on the return to Shanghai, we stopped in Quzhou. It was my first time driving such a long distance, and it was indeed an experience.
