---
title: A Quarter of This Year Has Passed
date: 2020-03-31 08:54:16+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
translationKey: a-quarter-of-this-year-has-passed
slug: a-quarter-of-this-year-has-passed
source_hash: bb668797a2d9ad40e94cc17f38f9594fd9e15d0aad0179c95ca4525370a0e8dd
---

I am actually someone who finds it difficult to control his emotions. One of my ways to cope with feeling down is to sleep. Last night, I went to bed at ten o'clock.

I'm still anxious about the future and the path ahead. Every morning, I entrust my worries in prayer; by the end of the day, it seems they are filled up again. I need to learn to pray again in the evening and not carry my worries into the next day 😄

This morning, my wife shared her devotional insights with me (neither of us has been in a good spiritual state recently): Saul and David were both humble people, yet God chose them. Their attitudes and responses to God, however, were completely different. One turned away from God, while the other drew near. My wife went on to say that right now, we seem to lack nothing and have obtained the things we wanted in recent years. Yet, we find ourselves far from God. Moving forward, we need to make the right choices.

Although I jokingly responded to her with "Yes, yes," I truly agree. I must admit that everything in the past, present, and future is given by God, including my life. Despite having my desires and expectations fulfilled, I arrogantly thought I earned these things, that I could have them forever and control them as I wished. My eyes have truly been blinded; indeed, I am foolish and shortsighted. Just like the "prodigal son" in the Gospel of Luke. While the father was still alive, the younger son arrogantly demanded his share of the inheritance; and here I am, standing before the living and almighty God, claiming these things as mine. The younger son was foolish enough to take his inheritance and leave his father, and I am that foolish younger son.

I often have the feeling that Christians seem to need a kind of "split personality."

On one hand, we face a "real" world that we see with our eyes, touch with our hands, and taste with our tongues; put more realistically, having money and status means you can live well, eat well, and live a decent life. This is so tangible, so real, that how can Christians resist?

On the other hand, "we bring nothing into this world, and we can take nothing out of it," and no one denies this. Ecclesiastes 5:15 states, "As everyone comes, so they depart; they take nothing from their toil that they can carry in their hands." Humans have souls. We do not merely live in the present world. The Bible tells us a path to eternal life: to trust in Jesus. We have to choose between following Jesus or following the world.

The sense of this split personality comes from the need to constantly remind yourself every day, with every thought, every step in this real world, that you have a soul, that you do not belong to this world, that you are going to leave, that you are going home.

Job 1:21 "Naked I came from my mother's womb, and naked I will depart. The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away; may the name of the Lord be praised!"
