---
title: 2020.03.24 - Friends and Knocking on Doors
date: 2020-03-25 06:46:12+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- book-notes
translationKey: friends-and-knocking-on-doors
slug: friends-and-knocking-on-doors
source_hash: 6677ad3d238ba5540af1bb0bd816e24bf45c85737ab87d5ce80d25bffd18e33c
---

### **Friends**

I've been reading the biography of Dietrich Bonhoeffer lately. I'm truly envious of how Bonhoeffer had such close friends (especially his friendship with Bethge) with whom he could share faith and life openly and candidly, supporting each other. Envious as I was, I couldn't help but repeatedly lament to my wife the other night: I have no friends; who are my friends? Who can I talk to about what I'm thinking?

These laments were overheard by Linda, who was doing her homework nearby. Yesterday at lunch, after being disciplined by me for something, she unhappily said, "Dad, I know why you don't have any friends." I asked her why, and she refused to tell me.

To be somewhat self-aware, I'm not an unpleasant person; I should have friends. I used to have friends I could chat with at different stages of life. But gradually, we drifted apart. It wasn't entirely due to physical distance or lack of time, but sometimes my own heart closed up.

Reflecting on this "no friends" issue reminded me of an incident with my dad. The communication between my parents and me, especially with my dad, though frequent on the phone, usually revolves around "Have you eaten? What did you eat? How's your health? What are you busy with today?" (which often leads Linda to ask why I'm always asking Grandma and Grandpa about their meals).

Why can't we have deeper conversations with our parents? Our generation tends to blame it on the generation gap, believing parents can't understand us. But I found out, that's not the case. Once, when I was planning to leave Liulishuo in 2019, I "forced" myself, like overcoming a psychological barrier, to talk to my dad about my thoughts. I asked him, "What was the most important decision you've made in your life?" My dad was both surprised and awkward, asking, "Why do you ask?" I said, "I'm planning to leave my current company, and it's an important decision; I want to hear your thoughts, but don't worry about me." After I spoke, my dad was silent for a moment and then nervously said, "I haven't seen much of the world, haven't had much experience, and haven't made any risky decisions..." That late-night phone call in the car by the roadside in our neighborhood is something I'll remember for a lifetime.

Thinking back on this, I realize the depth of relationships with friends depends on how proactive, open, and honest you are. With this mindset change, the next day, I reconnected with former colleagues and friends, overcoming the psychological barrier to communicate.

### **Knocking on Doors**

I am actually a very insecure person. Because of my insecurity, I've missed many opportunities. Some designers move into management roles after working for four or five years, while it took me almost ten years to reach management. Insecure individuals fear failure; essentially, it's not failure they fear but rejection. The more I understand myself and my weaknesses, the more I'm grateful for God's guidance. I believe that seven years ago, there were many more qualified people than me to join Liulishuo, but I was "pushed" to choose this opportunity. Those without faith might say it's luck or destiny. For me, I thank God for His mercy on me.

Last Sunday, I watched fashion designer UMA WANG's [Talk at Yixi](https://weibo.com/tv/v/Izditwwwp?fid=1034:4483863309647875). Early in her career while establishing her own fashion brand, she was once rejected by a crucial distributor. Essentially, she could have given up. On the way back, she passed a buyers' store, and her sales partner suggested they knock on the door to see if there was an opportunity for collaboration. UMA said, "You go, I can't bear the embarrassment; I'm not confident." She hid behind a big tree on the other side of the street, watching her sales colleague go up, knock on the door, and manage to secure the initial collaboration.
