---
title: Love and Marriage
date: 2020-04-02 06:37:34+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- marriage
- book-notes
translationKey: love-and-marriage
slug: love-and-marriage
source_hash: 9177a0ec40642864bf1a3692dd024bb996c89accd57a7520736e9baf545d0857
---

Recently, I've been reading "Bonhoeffer," and I found a particular phrase that deeply touched me and resonated with my beliefs. 

It's not your love that sustains the marriage, but from now on, the marriage that sustains your love.

There's a saying that marriage is the grave of love.

For many people, that's true. When marriage begins, the love between two people may not exactly end, but at least it's fading. Some people are full of confidence in their love for each other, believing this love can keep the marriage "everlasting and growing old together," essentially using love to sustain the marriage. Are there successful examples? By "successful examples," I don't mean the kind of marriages where people just "get by without fighting or fussing," but rather those deeply united in both body and soul, just as enchanting as at the beginning.

I must admit that my love cannot sustain my marriage.

So what is marriage, really? It's too profound a question. Here, I'll just share some simple thoughts.

Marriage is bestowed by God; it's the union of a man and a woman in both body and soul. It's about a man and woman submitting under God's authority, standing before God, and in the day-to-day life, sacrificing oneself for the other half. At the same time, it's about completely accepting the other person as a human being. This sacrifice and acceptance are called love. Evidently, this love isn't superficial or based on desire. It's deeper, sacred, and comes from God.
God granted holy marriage before Adam and Eve sinned. After the sin, a sinner's love certainly cannot sustain or fulfill the standards of the marriage God originally provided. A sinner's love is powerless. I must acknowledge that my love cannot sustain a marriage. Though such words might likely hurt my other half or make them feel insecure, it is a truth.

So, acknowledge that you don't have the love. Give up using your own love to sustain a marriage; that's the beginning of a stable marriage. We need to daily receive love that comes from God.

It is precisely for marriage, before God, sacrificing oneself for the other half, sacrificing one's own needs, that our individual lives mature more and more, becoming more Christ-like. The love within us is purified and gradually increases. Thus, through God's marriage, we actually grow the personal love between husband and wife and naturally sustain the love between them.

