---
title: March 23, 2020 - Keeping a Journal
date: 2020-03-23 15:24:52+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- thoughts
translationKey: march-23-2020-keeping-a-journal
slug: march-23-2020-keeping-a-journal
source_hash: 2736ade0668dcc68f8921626cbd926ec7fa55693e72fb8a307fc0c012f7a3609
---

Recently, I've read a few insightful articles.

**Huige Qitan**, a WeChat public account I once unfollowed but later followed again. I initially unfollowed because I found the content too superficial. However, I re-followed because of a few articles on investment and finance. Huige's strength lies in his high level of cognition and strong execution. This judgment is solely based on the content of his articles as well as his ability to update his public account daily despite being a working professional. I later discovered, to my surprise, that Huige is a classmate of a former colleague from Liulishuo.

Yesterday, in his article "[What is the Most Important Distance Between Ordinary People and Experts?](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzA5NjM0Nzc3NA==&mid=2650441135&idx=1&sn=5becab43219f7b128f593f90ecf7ad44&scene=21#wechat_redirect)", he mentioned the word "extreme." This reminded me of my own state and my thoughts and struggles with "self-idleness" over the past year. Having worked in the internet design industry for fifteen years (since 2005), I've done a lot and feel there are many things I can do (graphic design, branding, app design, website design, illustration, product design, front-end coding), but is there anything I can say I've done to the extreme? Honestly, no. I've only reached a medium level, neither up nor down.

Aside from design, even in church preaching, I definitely can't claim any sense of extremity, whether in attitude or results; it's merely average. Additionally, there's painting and writing. 😄

Of course, being an ordinary person is certainly fine. However, for me, I truly want to focus my energy on doing one or two remarkable things in the rest of my life.

Huige mentioned, choosing to do something to the extreme involves using the power of "belief" to get through the dark period before achieving results. Indeed, this process requires personal investment, time, money; enduring loneliness; and enduring extended periods without returns. Without a bit of faith, it's hard to take the first step, let alone the many steps that follow. For me, as a Christian, "belief" holds a different meaning. I believe in God's provision and guidance.

Another [article](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzI4MTA0MjU3OA==&mid=2650309824&idx=1&sn=ee296666d42ab14486cf083b9b52212b&scene=21#wechat_redirect) was by Haba, the co-founder of the DaV Store, and it discussed keeping a journal. Like Haba, I'm someone who comes from the internet blog era, loving to write and express, especially when I was young, there were so many real things to document. However, in recent years, as I've matured and become more worldly, even though there are many things I wish to express, particularly life and career puzzles, I often refrain from showing them to the world due to concerns. Haba mentioned that the value in journaling lies in its authenticity. Yes, indeed, if there's no authenticity, what meaning do the words have?

Like Haba, I've put a lot of pressure on myself regarding writing, always hoping to churn out serious, professional articles, but they are difficult to produce. Because of this, I've become increasingly daunted. But journaling is different; it's an easy way to express oneself. So, moving forward, I'll let go and write some diaries.
