---
title: March 25, 2020 - Starting a Design Studio?
date: 2020-03-26 09:36:39+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- design
translationKey: march-25-2020-starting-a-design-studio
slug: march-25-2020-starting-a-design-studio
source_hash: 56c36fa7b9f36357ee6f6448dc06718f463d7b0cc5ef7e7f046c2d477e76ed51
---

Since around July 2019, I've been helping a friend with product & design consulting, working in an office for 3 days a week, and taking the other 2 days off (for rest, errands), all for a fixed service fee. By the end of this month, this collaboration model will come to an end, and we're currently exploring a more flexible way to work together.

When it comes to time, I'm particularly fond of ritual. I joined Liulishuo in May 2013 and left in May 2019. After a year of pause, emptiness, and (supposed) contemplation, I'm expecting a fresh start around May 2020.

If I can control my desire to spend and maintain a certain standard of living, life is actually quite free without a full-time job. However, after a year of break, I can't help but want to do something. To be honest, part of the reason stems from a deeply ingrained fear of financial instability; but the main driving force is that I need to do something meaningful (valuable to others), not wasting life.

Being at home for too long, my wife is somewhat fed up with me. She even seriously told me that if I continue staying home, my spiritual life is regressing: "Look at your state when you were working at Liulishuo; although it was tiring and challenging, you always prayed and relied on God to live. What about now? You're just soft 😠. You’re more suited to taking up a job."

Before I accepted the Christian faith, my goals were clear: excel in design, start a business, make money, and live a modest life (I had even hoped to retire by 30); since 2008, after gaining some foundation in the faith, I've been troubled by one persistent question that I can't erase: What is my purpose? What is worth dedicating a lifetime to? (This is also one of the rightful worries that faith has brought me.)

Around 2014, in Liulishuo's first decent office, there was a "wall of dreams" for employees. My dream was: to find what I truly want to do.

Years have passed, and I still haven't found it. But generally speaking, my directions seem to be: one, return to the workplace, undertaking work as a designer or design manager; two, start my own design studio; three, study the Bible and serve full-time in the church (😄 which means not doing design, working in the church. I try not to use Christian jargon). As of now, all these are possibilities. But each path is uncertain. I really need to pray earnestly about this.

I will continue to pray for the path ahead and will also try to take some actions. Returning to today's theme "Starting a Design Studio?", yes, for now, it's just an idea. In the past, I would never publicly share undeveloped ideas. Since I [mentioned](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzAxNjgyODc4OA==&mid=2651665362&idx=1&sn=6ba7bda39c3a920e70ab93f7971f74c7&chksm=801743c9b760cadf4f494eb0a3961ee85bacf97b6a182b80d014235ac02de36214528eaf2879&scene=21#wechat_redirect) the other day that "journals should be real," I'll just write something fresh. I'm not certain if this is the path I'm supposed to take, but I can at least give it a try.

If it's God's guidance, the path will open. New and old friends, feel free to refer business my way~
