---
title: Thanksgiving Reflections 2021
date: 2021-11-26 10:25:58+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- thanksgiving-topics
translationKey: thanksgiving-reflections-2021
slug: thanksgiving-reflections-2021
source_hash: 99adc90293c1d3ff96b033c6b650b0a78ab88fc4fc1f7f08dea7906d9391621a
---

1. Thank God for keeping our family and me safe during the pandemic;

2. Thank God for helping us maintain a consistent family worship routine;

3. Thank God for providing everything our family needs and guiding us in wonderful ways;

4. Thank God for the opportunity for the children to continue their education in challenging circumstances;

5. Thank God for the teachers at school who assist in the children's learning. In our farewell conversations with R.Z., I truly felt their piety and love. Their experiences have greatly encouraged me and may even influence some of my future life decisions.

6. Thank God for allowing us to succeed in the XXXX application;

7. Thank Woody for providing legal services, Brother Chen for offering intermediary services, and Brother Xuping for providing relevant documentation during my XXXX application process;

8. Thank God for forgiving my sins and giving me salvation through Jesus Christ, offering the hope of eternal life, even amidst physical weakness and global chaos;

9. Thank God for ensuring the safety of MGC and the loving care among its members;

10. Thank God for the healthy growth of our two children;

11. Thank God for my current job. However, I feel unworthy and need to repent;

12. Thank God for old colleagues and friends writing recommendation letters for me;

13. Thank H Teacher/Mrs. H for their care and encouragement during the TMS gatherings;

14. Thank God for preserving my marriage with Yanbing, where we experience both conflict and reconciliation;

15. Thank God for YT and ZH families caring for us;

16. Thank God for Shanshan and Zhaozhao caring for Yilin and Anran;

17. Thank God my parents and brothers feel reluctant about our possible move, yet selflessly support, understand, and encourage us.

18. Thank God my parents-in-law, brother-in-law, and sister-in-law care about us deeply, and for the opportunity to reunite with them in Changchun this year;

19. Thank God for leading my wife and me to consistently play badminton, and the opportunity to exercise with school teachers;

20. Thank God for a special former colleague being able to connect with the church, read the Bible, and pray;
