---
title: Giving Thanks in 2022
date: 2022-12-04 02:55:44+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- north-america-journey
- christian-faith
- thankfulness
translationKey: giving-thanks-in-2022
slug: giving-thanks-in-2022
source_hash: 3810f6ec93806f9c1b555df86e818f774de863f4b7b80c50377d6a95d752bf7f
---

1. Thank God, my Savior. In 2022, the world was in such turmoil, with each country having its sins and absurdities. If life were only about this present existence, how despairing it would be! Evil people are in power, the righteous are oppressed. Sin goes unpunished, and justice seems impossible. Thank God, His kingdom is holy, just, and perfect. This is my hope for living.

2. Thank God for granting me inner strength and keeping me in prayer. It can be challenging to pray to the Lord during times of weakness and valleys. But when I start praying, my heart is renewed and strengthened. I acknowledge that every time I turn back to God, it's the work of the Holy Spirit within me, but I've also increasingly realized the importance of turning to God with my will, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and strength."

3. Thank God for preserving my health and peace. As I age, my body is deteriorating. My hair is thinning, my neck is constantly sore, I have tinnitus in my right ear (since coming to the US), and my astigmatism seems to be worsening... Yet, because of my hope for eternal life, my heart is renewed day by day.

4. Thank God for forgiving my sins, setting me free. My sins are vast; my thoughts are often impure, lustful, greedy, proud, and arrogant. I also often feel anxious, depressed, hopeless, and empty. Such a sinful being as I have no part in God’s holiness and eternity. Thank Jesus for saving me, bearing my sins, and bearing the punishment I could never endure. Indeed, "by His wounds, we are healed." (Isaiah 53:5)

5. Thank God for the time spent with my parents in Changsha from December 2021 to February 2022 during the pandemic. This was the longest time living with family since going to university (and such an opportunity may be unlikely again). Also, thank God for letting me experience a beautiful winter snow in my hometown of Changsha, reliving many childhood memories and feelings.

6. Thank God for the health and safety of my family. During 2021/2022, our family made several road trips between Shanghai and Changsha, and I thank God for keeping us safe on the road.

7. Thank God for giving me the courage to share the gospel with my parents and brother, both in person and through WeChat. May the Lord guide them to know the Lord of life.

8. Thank God for letting our family enjoy the fun of fishing in Changsha and Shanghai.

9. Thank God, during the first community lockdown in Shanghai due to the pandemic outbreak, Linyun's family drove 30-40 kilometers to deliver groceries to us, and Ruie's family gave us snacks and coffee.

10. Thank God for guiding us on a road trip to Changsha on May 9th, the night before the first silence in Shanghai. He kept us safe and everything went smoothly. Though we experienced some complications with changing quarantine hotels in Changsha, we had peace in our hearts. (We went to Changsha to "erase" travel records in Shanghai to facilitate a visa interview in Guangzhou in June.)

11. Thank God for providing us with the EB1A U.S. immigration visa. I must say, this is not because of any exceptional ability on my part. Over the years, I know well that I am just an average person with limited knowledge and a narrow perspective. Often, what I receive seems mismatched with my capabilities. Therefore, I have to thank my Lord.

12. Thank God, during our quarantine in Changsha, my parents and brother's family took care of us, hosting and helping us in every way possible. I also thank them for understanding our decision to move abroad.

13. Thank God for bringing us safely to Guangzhou on May 29th. I am grateful for the opportunity to meet colleagues HF, the family of O, and David's family in Guangzhou, enjoying the real face-to-face interactions, chats, and meals.

14. Thank God for successfully passing the interview at the U.S. Consulate in Guangzhou on June 13th. Special thanks to brother Lujia for sharing a lot of EB1A interview experiences with me.

15. Thank God for the teachers at Shanghai KFC School who helped with my children's studies. I am also very grateful for the opportunity to offer our living room in Shanghai as a study space for the second-grade children.

16. Thank God, after passing the Guangzhou interview, we successfully found a buyer for our Shanghai house. My wife and I repeatedly marveled at God's help, and many friends envied our ability to sell at the perfect time.

17. Thank God, upon learning of our imminent departure to the U.S., many brothers and sisters from the Shanghai church invited us to dinners (Y tao/Z hong/H guo/M jian/Z jun/…). Thank God for knowing everyone in the Lord and sharing a nearly decade-long life in church. Thank God, when YT prepared a farewell album filled with blessings from each brother, sister, and family, it brought me to tears as I flipped through it on the night flight to the U.S.

18. Thank God, brother YG silently helped me with the procedures for transferring the car title and selling real estate in Shanghai. Between brothers, words are few; YG helped quietly, and I am grateful.

19. Thank God, for leading my family through the changes of this year in prayer (the kids also prayed). Lord, help us to have a grateful heart, so that both adults and children do not forget your grace.

20. Thank God for letting us return to Hangzhou on August 6th, the city where I first encountered the faith in 2006. Thank God, for reuniting with old friends and family. The reunion was filled with emotions, with tearful farewells but also joy and hope—a privilege of being a Christian. May the Lord help everyone hold fast to their faith and pursue the beautiful journey ahead.

21. Thank God, on August 8th, with the help of brothers and sisters in Shanghai, we got on the plane to the U.S. smoothly. On the surface, it seemed like a sudden decision to leave, but in retrospect, the timing was perfect, even envied by friends. I must admit, this was not due to our foresight, but entirely due to God's guidance and protection.

22. Thank God for providing all we need for life in America, with no lack but abundance. I often marvel at how God takes care of someone as weak and wobbly as I.

23. Thank God, for assisting us in settling in Los Angeles through brother LV's family. From renting a home to opening bank accounts, setting up utilities, accompanying the driver's test, recommending churches, and weekend outings—they provided us with various selfless help.

24. Thank God, for allowing me to continue my previous work in America and engage in face-to-face exchanges with colleagues; I am also grateful to meet industry peers and seniors in Orlando, inspired and moved by their love for God.

25. Thank God, for meeting elder Mr. S in Los Angeles, who helped us in our spiritual growth and cared about our life needs.

26. Thank God, both children were able to enroll smoothly in a Christian school here and adapt quickly to the learning and life.

27. Thank God, for keeping our family life in America. Living together as four people, there are always conflicts and tensions—between husband and wife, parents and children, siblings. Thank the Lord for keeping us praying to God during times of family tension, allowing us to restore relationships time and again.

28. Thank God for the church, pastors, and brothers and sisters we have now.

29. Thank God, for safeguarding our marriage. Sometimes the relationship can get tense or cold, but I am grateful for the Lord’s protection, allowing us to restore it timely. Without God, my marriage would certainly fail.

30. Thank God for healing us after contracting the coronavirus in America;
