---
title: 2024 Thanksgiving Reflections
date: 2024-12-04 15:16:28+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- thanksgiving-topics
translationKey: 2024-thanksgiving-reflections
slug: 2024-thanksgiving-reflections
source_hash: bef080ef20f82e355691c7ce583e92a7006df1b92dca1ff496ffe333e509cd94
---

- Thank God for the smooth move from LA, California to Dallas, Texas, in August. In terms of distance, it’s like moving from Shanghai to Kunming. Looking back at the decision made four months ago, I'm amazed at the courage and determination it took. It was resolute, without any hesitation, just a strong sense of needing to relocate. I know it was God’s guidance, like many major decisions in the past, with an invisible hand leading us.
- After deciding to move, between April 26 and May 29, we quickly visited several cities in the U.S. (Tallahassee in Florida, Columbia in South Carolina, Charlotte in North Carolina, and Dallas in Texas). Thank God for welcoming us through the churches and brothers and sisters in each city, thanks to brothers Tianfeng, Rick, Ashely, Lisa, and Lucas.
- Moving was a struggle for our two older kids. After two years in the U.S., just when things were stabilizing, they had made good friends at school and church, which was crucial for them. My daughter spent a lot of time and effort preparing for high school, but moving meant starting all over again. I understood their complaints and even some resentment, and I tried to explain, but felt powerless. They were overwhelmed, and so was I, just wishing the days would pass quickly. Besides praying, I didn’t know what else to do. In such difficult times, prayer feels natural, like a lifeline. Thank God, after moving, the kids adapted quickly, and you could almost see the change on their faces. The pressure and worry in my heart were completely lifted.
- Thank God for the care from the pastor and brothers and sisters of Rancho Cucamonga Covenant Church in LA. Our daughter Elin once said to us, “Why do so many people love you?” Indeed, the love we have received is something we are undeserving of.
- Thank God for the safe and smooth journey of my wife and two daughters returning to China in July, and for keeping them healthy in China.
- Thank God for leading us to the retreat in Malaysia in July, spending wonderful time with coworkers and engaging in meaningful exchanges.
- Thank God for the week spent with my parents in Malaysia, and the opportunity for the kids to spend time with their grandparents.
- On our return from Malaysia to the U.S., we discovered an error with our flight tickets regarding the transfer in Taiwan between two different airlines, necessitating a visa (even with a U.S. Green Card, it wasn’t sufficient). Thank God we didn't panic or complain, but prayed together as a family, peacefully rebooking the tickets.
- Thank God for the smooth graduation of our daughter and son from ALCS school in August. May the Lord bless ALCS.
- Thank God for safely guiding me and my son on our drive from LA to Dallas, a journey of about 2,300 kilometers. We had meaningful conversations and cooperation during the drive, and I’m also thankful for my 9-year-old son’s assistance in handling car maintenance issues on the road.
- Thank God for preparing the PCA school for our children.
- Thank God for the smooth selling and buying of our houses. Thanks to sister Annie, a Christian broker in California, and sister Zhang, a Christian broker in Texas.
- Thank God for giving me more courage this year than the past two years to participate in school prayer meetings.
- Thank God for leading us to TCC Church. The brothers and sisters have a vibrant life, full of energy. But we are still adjusting and, in some ways, haven't moved on from our church in Shanghai. There’s always a tendency to compare in our hearts, even if we don’t say it out loud. May the Lord help us be humble in our interactions with brothers and sisters and serve the church. May He also lead our two children to grow and be built up in the church.
- Thank my wife for loving me, helping me, accepting me, and caring for my needs (like giving me time to fish). Thank her also for taking care of our family and being concerned about both sets of parents. Thank God for blessing me with a wife.
- Thank God for giving my daughter a conscientious, self-disciplined mind and a serious attitude towards study and life. Pray for the Lord to help her learn to pray, to hand her burdens and stress over to God.
- Thank God for giving my son a heart that considers the needs of family members, always helping the family. Thank God, too, for stopping his eczema and making his body healthier than before.
- Thank God for preserving the health and growth of my youngest daughter and for helping her learn to walk. Her softness, innocence, and cuteness are expressions of love and reward to her parents. Thank God for the joy and comfort my youngest daughter has brought to me.
- Thank God for allowing me to work, earn an income, and use my interests and talents. May the Lord help me focus more on honoring Him at work.
- Thank God for all the provisions and preparations for our family. Seventeen years ago, sitting in a rented room less than 8 square meters in Gudangwan Community, Hangzhou, a rural kid would never have imagined today’s life. It was in that room that I often prayed Proverbs 30:7-9 for myself: “Two things I ask of you, Lord; do not refuse me before I die: Keep falsehood and lies far from me; give me neither poverty nor riches, but give me only my daily bread. Otherwise, I may have too much and disown you and say, ‘Who is the Lord?’ Or I may become poor and steal, and so dishonor the name of my God.” God is faithful; what He provides greatly surpasses my requests and our needs for life. May the Lord help me worship the one true God, not money or anything else. May He also help us be good stewards.
- I’m grateful for having woodworking and fishing as two hobbies in the U.S. However, I lack self-control in these areas (and am puzzled about how not to indulge in what interests me deeply). May the Lord help me.
- For the past two years, externally, life has been good without lack. Yet, spiritually, it has been a wilderness. I often find myself far from God, drawn by the world, struggling to control my emotions in the family, and not wholehearted in work. Despite this, thank God for His protection, for help and exhortation through the church (past and present), workplace brothers, and elders, and for the Holy Spirit's reminders and guidance keeping me on God’s path. Simply put, thank God for causing me discomfort when I am far away, so I feel the need to return.
- In recent years, there have been more conflicts and disagreements with the kids. Each conflict takes quite a long time to get over, and even when I do, there isn’t much growth or renewal. Thank the Lord, at the end of the year, my mindset began to change — I need to learn how to be a dad to teenagers. I must change, rather than stubbornly hold onto what I believe is right (really, it’s just the methods of parents and others). Conflicts with teenage kids at the root stems from my mindset and methods not being renewed and prepared for communication and interaction with them. This renewal of concepts also relates to fishing. There is a tasty fish in North America called Crappie, known as "Papio." Initially, I stubbornly used my past methods and gear to catch Papio, achieving nothing. Eventually, I had to watch and learn from experts around me. In reality, without change, you can't catch Papio. After one conflict with the kids, it dawned on me — if I can be willing to learn fishing, why am I not willing to learn about interacting with kids? Thank God! The relationship with the children now indeed has its challenges and struggles, but because of God, there is faith, hope for the future, and no reason for despair or disappointment.
- Thank God, the marital relationship in 2024 underwent many changes. Primarily, we began confronting the issue of “lack of communication and exchange between spouses.” During the couple-sharing session at the retreat in June, I likened our relationship to “two employees”: my wife and I are busy each day, following plans, coordinating, helping one another, and trying to accomplish every family task, big or small. The family indeed runs smoothly, yet we became like two employees of this family company. Thanks to Ake’s reminder and suggestion, we started paying attention to this problem this year. In fact, we’ve even had some arguments over it (which were quite necessary). Thank God for preserving us.
