---
title: God's Pace
date: 2024-08-01 00:07:22+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- north-america-drifting
- christian-faith
translationKey: gods-pace
slug: gods-pace
source_hash: 2e7728f00d787e0814501dbb6f3b562c3faf3424b2b48f865b8f763e80117770
---

Recently, exhausted and burdened, I attended a Christian retreat in a desert-surrounded forest near Los Angeles.

Initially, I merely felt the weight on my body and soul, without pondering the reason behind it. When I found myself in a temporarily isolated environment, my heart gradually quieted down, leading to some introspection.

It turned out that the invisible pressure and burden were mainly a sense of anxiety. This anxiety could be broken down into words like impatience, the endless cycle of busyness, and worry. My daily life was tightly scheduled as if failing to do so would cause the sky to fall; yet, repeating this lifestyle day to day, I still felt many tasks were left undone. These "regrets" seemed to pose risks and obstacles to the "right path of life." I worried about my children's physical health and faith, and in both these areas, daily life showed little change or progress. This left me anxious and troubled.

Then, I began to ponder a theme introduced by the pastor leading our retreat - God’s Pace. This was a small retreat, allowing ample time for solitude. I chose a study with some robust pine trees visible outside the window for relaxation and contemplation.

What is God’s rhythm like?

As a limited being, my observation of the world and my reflections are equally limited, as are my life experiences.

Looking at the pine trees outside, strong, healthy, and towering, they elicit praise for the Creator's greatness. Yet, such towering trees grow from tiny seeds. In my backyard, I've planted many plants, some from seeds as well. Observing them daily, their growth from one day to the next is almost imperceptible. This growth rate seems too slow. As a human, I find it hard to endure such a pace—God’s pace. I wish for faster, noticeable daily changes. God’s pace, however, is a pace invisible to the naked eye. And yet, it is this imperceptible divine pace that turns seeds into trees.

Reflecting on the growth of our nine-month-old daughter is also wondrous and awe-inspiring. To my eyes, there's little difference between today and yesterday, yet over these nine months, she has grown more than twenty centimeters. How did this happen? She grows every moment, at a slow pace, at the pace God has set, although my eyes cannot perceive it.

My son suffers from allergies, eczema, and asthma. We've consistently prayed for his health, particularly for the eczema. Though his skin has improved as he grows, some areas have persistent eczema. As I hold his hand and pray for him at night, I feel both heartache and self-pity. In such moments, I long for a miracle, for his hand to heal instantly. Previously, I complained about God’s slow pace; but now, I am beginning to have a bit more patience in waiting.

Reflecting further on my faith journey, God led me to the church in 2006, and I was baptized in 2008. Over nearly twenty years, I've undoubtedly grown. However, isolating a version of myself as a father, and viewing my faith growth on a daily basis renders a feeling of frustration and impatience since my progress seems too slow. But this is God’s pace for my growth, a pace so slow even I struggle to accept it.

The Creator of the boundless universe allows growth and transformation in such a slow manner, enabling people to change their lives and renew their minds.

The pastor encouraged us to further reflect on why God’s pace is so slow.

I thought of grace and gentleness.

God is slow because He is the truly patient, gracious, and gentle Father. God gives us ample time to grow and change; He is neither hurried nor forces me, He does not discourage me, but patiently waits. Even the slightest growth in me brings Him joy and celebration.

I need to learn from God to slow down further in every aspect of life. Even this learning process needs to be done slowly. For someone who’s worked for years in an industry driven by the principle "fast is unbreakable," this is a challenge; yet, with reliance on God, nothing is impossible.

Slowly. Patiently waiting.
