---
title: Not Buying a House, Finding Freedom
date: 2016-09-28 02:03:00+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- family
- house
translationKey: not-buying-a-house-finding-freedom
slug: not-buying-a-house-finding-freedom
source_hash: adfdda4f76a90ae5b4ae9eeedfc48f6fa9ba2035919f9da16b316620631736b9
---

Since Elim is being educated "outside the system," there's a very good chance Anran will follow the same path. Even if they attend public elementary school, buying a house has little to do with education (of course, this also depends on whether parents are concerned with competing for "prestigious schools").

The housing market in Shanghai is extraordinarily rampant. With my current capabilities, unless there's some "unexpected windfall", it's unlikely I'll ever be able to afford it in this lifetime. Given that education is no longer tied to owning a home, what is the real difference between renting and buying? Renting might be inconvenient, with moves every two or three years. Other than that, I can't think of any differences.

Realizing I don't need to buy a house in Shanghai fills me with a sense of freedom.

[Home isn't a house](http://diff.im/?p=8); it's where loved ones and warmth reside.

> "All these people were still living by faith when they died. They did not receive the things promised; they only saw them and welcomed them from a distance, admitting that they were foreigners and strangers on earth. People who say such things show that they are looking for a country of their own. If they had been thinking of the country they had left, they would have had opportunity to return. Instead, they were longing for a better country—a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared a city for them."
> Hebrews 11:13-16
