---
title: Don't Compromise Easily
date: 2020-04-08 07:27:17+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- design
- designer-growth
translationKey: dont-compromise-easily
slug: dont-compromise-easily
source_hash: f0c0d3a57c27f3bf01528fe695a8e010ab35eaac7ca94998565f4c28a5909ca3
---

Everything has two sides. While I am gentle by nature, get along well with others, and communicate smoothly (perhaps with a grain of salt), on the flip side, I sometimes don't stand firm on important matters such as fighting for my legitimate interests and expressing my design expertise.

Compromising too easily stems from an inner fear of rejection and failure, so by "taking a step back," I tend to appease others. To put it more directly, I end up "abandoning my own views" to gain others' approval, seeking their acceptance of me as a person rather than focusing on the issue at hand.

When it comes to personal interests, I have never been the "maximize benefits" type. I believe in give and take and am willing to sacrifice some benefits to maintain good relationships. However, I've come to realize recently that we should not easily compromise when it comes to pursuing legitimate interests but need to stand our ground. Compromising too easily on fair interests actually undermines one's own value. If you don't respect your own value, how can you expect others to do so?

The same applies to design expertise. In the past, whether as an individual designer or in design management, I would often "compromise on design professionalism" to achieve "quicker decision-making" or "smoother team collaboration." While I still believe that it's critical to let go of "irrelevant parts" for faster progress and to seek common ground, I should be more rigorous about maintaining a professional design attitude. Every stand and compromise should be well-reasoned and logically clear rather than becoming a "habitual compromise." It's important to note that forming a habit of compromise is all too easy—it can seep into one's character and become part of it.

Another area where I cannot compromise is the path I am trying with the design studio. I clearly know this path is a long-term one, having a cumulative effect. In the short term, running a design studio requires investing my own time, money, and enduring isolation. Meanwhile, I need to greatly enhance my interpersonal skills, communication skills, design skills, and self-management abilities. It's so easy for me to compromise on challenges and difficulties. This requires confidence.

As someone as weak as I am, I truly need prayer and surrender, to believe in what has yet to happen, focusing earnestly on today and not worrying about tomorrow. (This paragraph was written and deleted, deleted and written again—I don't want to fall into the trap of prosperity theology. It is merely my honest thoughts at this moment.)
