---
title: A Conversation with Mr. Yi
date: 2009-12-16 12:12:33+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- people-in-life
translationKey: a-conversation-with-mr-yi
slug: a-conversation-with-mr-yi
source_hash: 85922fb81144d9fb338a6289fdd4dd0c9d4400413cb1a5426b2480d38d9d315f
---

Seeing that Mr. Yi wrote [a piece on "State and Time"](http://www.xiuqin.net/post/428.html), I composed a lengthy comment but got the message "Comments are closed." So I'm posting it here.

I used to think that a person's happiness was closely tied to their financial standing, so I worked hard to increase my worth. But the rise in worth isn't proportionate to the material costs demanded by this superficial world—it's exhausting.

Sometimes I think it would be great to go back home and become a farmer. No need to work every day, just be busy during the farming season, and possibly not have much money.

But it's not possible to go back now. I can't imagine what it would be like to live a rural life at this age, with my current mindset.

I used to envy you, Mr. Yi, for your high income. I don't anymore.

Between amplifying and simplifying, Mr. Yi and I are the epitome of the rich and poor in this world.

There's really nothing to envy about the rich, because they have their own difficulties. This isn't just to comfort myself.

The poorest person can be incredibly happy; the wealthiest person can have troubles they can't shake off.

Thinking this way, is life truly so painful?

I feel incredibly blessed to have faith. Because God says, "Give us this day our daily bread";

And also, "Do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own";

And many more. His words are where the meaning of my life lies.
