---
title: Designing for Users
date: 2012-01-20 15:06:08+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- design
translationKey: designing-for-users
slug: designing-for-users
source_hash: 02edfcba66c5428e99a850c3ca0d155701945813178934e1a6d2334d74ef706a
---

User-centered design, or designing from the user's perspective, are phrases often uttered by designers. Everyone understands this differently (and some have never tried to understand), but my interpretation is:

- Understand and feel the user's needs; sense the user's "hunger" and "pain." It's akin to the saying, "The well-fed never understand the hungry." In many product scenarios, designers may have moved beyond the "basic needs" issue. How can those who are "well-fed" design for the "hungry"? For example, a designer who has always used an iPhone needs to design a low-end smartphone; or a married designer designing a dating app.
- Be sincere and kind to users. Sincerity means helping users solve problems with a straightforward, positive, and loving attitude, rather than exploiting the weaknesses and darker aspects of human nature. Catering to the "sins" within human nature might be a "shortcut" that shows immediate results and yields quick gains, but in the long term, it is a path to destruction. Myspace and Facebook are stark examples.
- During the specific design process, designers should return to simplicity and forget about "showing off skills or coolness." The starting point of design is "how to create user value and present it appropriately to users"—design should not be a tool for designers to "stand out."
