---
title: A Positive Attitude
date: 2011-11-08 03:00:23+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- thoughts
- design
translationKey: a-positive-attitude
slug: a-positive-attitude
source_hash: f0e6bc313715f15da125537141557c5f94067bf2d02833213b73f566bd006634
---

I went to the hospital, worried about whether a mole on the back of my neck might turn malignant. Every time I'm in a hospital, I feel an unusual calm. Everyone cares about their physical life. (How many people care about their spiritual life?) There are always so many patients. Doctors have become like little merchants. Of course, this isn't what I wanted to talk about.

After the blood test, the nurse told me to retrieve the lab report from the machine in an hour. There was a machine at the entrance.

While waiting, I marveled at the changes brought by technology. Tasks that once required a lot of manual labor can now be handled by machines, distributing the workload and reducing costs. At the same time, I thought about how challenging the advancement of technology must have been. Initially, someone must have said, "How could lab reports possibly be self-printed by a machine? For hundreds of years, they've been done by our own hands!" Similarly, years later, someone might say, "How can ordinary people draw their blood, test it, and prescribe medication themselves? These are tasks for professional doctors!" Think about how electricity, telephones, printers, computers, and cell phones entered the lives of ordinary people. It reminds me of the poem: "The swallows that once flew in the halls of the wealthy now enter the homes of common people."

For the negative and timid, there are only difficulties and excuses; for the positive, optimistic, and brave, opportunities, attempts, and challenges accompany them. Looking back, including my experience with Alibaba Cloud, I admit I've been the former. A change is needed.
