---
title: Starting Life Anew in a Different Time Zone
date: 2022-09-04 03:33:29+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- life-in-north-america
- christianity
translationKey: starting-life-anew-in-a-different-time-zone
slug: starting-life-anew-in-a-different-time-zone
source_hash: 487f9e26bc4fd43548f8c0f95062ad1c5249e6118114a132de8236600c486c21
---

### Starting Life Anew in a Different Time Zone

I ultimately decided to fly to the United States on August 8th, over ten days earlier than planned. I discovered by chance that four days after arriving in the U.S. would be my 40th birthday. Back in the day, Moses was also 40 when he moved to a new country to start his life (as a friend remarked to me).

I must admit, this is a journey led by the God I believe in, just as He led me away from "my homeland and my people," from Changsha to Hangzhou in 2006, and in 2013, He guided my family from Hangzhou, where we had lived for seven years, to Shanghai. After nine years in Shanghai, our family is setting out again, this time to begin life in Los Angeles, USA.

I am so small, foolish, and incapable. If I relied solely on my own thoughts, abilities, and resources to plan my path, I would undoubtedly encounter darkness and chaos, as well as sorrow and burdens. I've often confided to my wife that without God, someone as clueless as I am, with average intelligence, wouldn't even know how they'd end up "dying." I have absolutely no power to foresee tomorrow's path. I am grateful for God's guidance and protection.

Some people envy those who immigrate to America, while some family and friends are confused by it. Perhaps it's because of my design profession or my work in the internet industry that I've been influenced by Western culture since my college days. I've always admired the freedom, culture, and technological atmosphere in America. In my previous understanding, the U.S. was an ideal country. But in recent years, as I became more aware of human sin and God's word, I realized that no ideal nation exists in this world. China definitely has its issues, but in other aspects, America has even more problems. There is no heaven on earth.

Friends around me say I like challenges and adventures. In fact, I am like most people; I prefer stability and security. After nine years in Shanghai, whether it was living resources or my relationships with church brethren, coworkers, and friends, everything had reached a stable, comfortable stage. Overall, even though there were many external pressures, I managed them with ease and skill. Leaving a secure and comfortable situation to face unknown challenges involves significant struggle.

Dealing with long-distance, long-term separation from parents and siblings' families isn't easy either. My brother claims I'm carefree, but I really am not. I have many concerns and hesitations, and he knows this. Both sets of parents don't want us to leave, yet they express only support and blessings. Each time I see them, I notice their aging and their need for their children's care and company in terms of both physical and mental health. Living in America clearly means being far from family. Furthermore, with the current state of U.S.-China relations, returning home isn't easy. Many nights, these internal struggles keep me from sleeping. I often sigh, wondering how I should choose?

During the immigration process and waiting period, we prayed often. Yet, due to the lengthy process, we sometimes grew weary. Thanks to God's grace, through the reminders from senior believers, my wife and I found our way back to our relationship with God two months before leaving. Facing such a difficult decision, my wife and I (and sometimes our two children join us) pray together in unity.

In prayer, I entrust the fear and worry about the unknown and the deep, complex, and difficult-to-sever emotions towards parents, siblings, and loved ones to the Lord. Especially in handling emotions, if I focus solely on the human aspect, I'd inevitably fall into a dilemma where any choice leaves me deeply regretful and ashamed, unable to find a way out. I must honestly express my thoughts and motivations in the Lord's presence and fully acknowledge my human limitations and insignificance, unable to know my future path. Whether leaving or staying, I accept and submit calmly.

From applying for EB1A in March 2021, to driving 1,200 kilometers back to Changsha on the eve of Shanghai's "silent management" on May 9, 2022 (to go to Guangzhou for an interview. At that time, Guangzhou didn't accept arrivals from Shanghai, so I had to return to Changsha "as a migrant worker returning home" to clear my Shanghai travel record), to a successful interview in Guangzhou on June 13, and then quickly and smoothly handling the sale of our house and car in Shanghai, and even catching the flight at the very last moment—all these were under God's protection and care. We felt God's protection throughout this process. I asked my daughter Elin if she thought God was guiding our family. She said, "I see that everything has gone smoothly for you, and things always happen just in time, so I think God is guiding us." (Grateful for God's protection that blessed us with smooth progress, and hoping that even in less fortunate times, we can still give thanks and praise)

Throughout the immigration process, we received selfless help from many friends. Some introduced us to lawyers, others wrote recommendation letters, and some answered all aspects of living in America, while others whom I had never met patiently and confidently responded to my questions and concerns, and more. I am generally indifferent to human relationships and value self-reliance. Receiving so much help and care from friends over the past year has truly moved me and touched me, breaking to some extent my indifference and lack of concern for people.

I started writing this piece on the flight from Shanghai to Los Angeles on August 8, during the long hours across the Pacific. It wasn't until nearly a month later, after completing the basics of settling in like renting a house, buying a car, and finding a school for the kids, that I finally finished it. Human hearts are proud, always eager to display themselves. I hope these words do not become a source of my pride. If they can offer even a bit of help or comfort to others, or if I can reflect God's glory through reviewing my experiences, that’s what I hope for. In the struggle between achieving one's pride and reflecting God's glory, I have modified this text numerous times.

When the plane landed at the layover in San Francisco and I saw the bright moon from the airplane window, I felt a profound peace within. The moon is still the moon created by Jehovah.
