---
title: Are You Ready to Pour Yourself Out to Build Others?
date: 2021-02-05 00:40:54+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- devotional-notes
translationKey: are-you-ready-to-pour-yourself-out-to-build-others
slug: are-you-ready-to-pour-yourself-out-to-build-others
source_hash: a0e338b261354c50800e1e3b269c4a63c4baa2a674c7e5867a3266836b55d838
---

Feb 5, 2021 at 6:52 AM

I am glad and rejoice with all of you if I am poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith. (Philippians 2:17 NIV)

The Apostle Paul was willing to pour out his life like a drink offering to build the faith of others. And he did so with joy, not feeling sacrificed, nor begrudged, and certainly not feeling self-satisfied for "offering himself."

Looking back, I have helped several brothers and sisters, spending some time and money on their faith, growth, and family relationships. There were good starts, but I couldn't persist, and things ended inconclusively.

Upon reflection, there are two reasons for this.

Firstly, I did not offer myself as a "sacrifice or drink offering" on the altar, asking Jesus to help them. I relied on my own strength, still seeing what I offered as belonging to me. I didn't see these offerings as "given away" and no longer my own.

Secondly, I did not maintain continual joy during the process, and helping others became a burden. Even before real challenges arose, I was defeated by fear and worry. The joy I lacked wasn't from external sources but from connecting with God and delighting in Him alone. My life had not matured enough to find joy in God. However, past experiences were not in vain.

I pray that the Lord renews my will, allowing me to imitate Paul, ready to pour myself out as a drink offering for the faith of others.

A few days ago, I was somewhat "obsessed" with design work, leading to an imbalance in time management, so much so that I didn't finish my devotional notes until the evening yesterday.

Indeed, I see the needs of the team and the value I can contribute. However, the sin within me still desires attention and praise through my actions. In contrast, I forget that my work is done before the Lord and for Him.

Philippians 2:14 is also a good reminder for me: "Do everything without grumbling or arguing." In design discussions, there are often clashes of ideas, and "pride and anger" can creep into our words, leading to grumbling and arguments. I aim to think and design with effort, express myself concisely, thoroughly, and patiently. The rest is for the team to judge.

Thanksgiving:

1. I was worried about my daughter’s nosebleeds and went to the hospital for a check-up. The results were good. Thank the Lord. Outsiders might say, as I previously did, it's nothing to be thankful for, just a false alarm. There are two things to be thankful for in this matter. First, when the outcome was unknown, I felt secure and unafraid because I could rely on God. Second, the result could have been bad, but it was good, which I believe is God's protection, and I must thank Him.
2. Thanks be to God for His protection. I've been distracted regarding God these past few days. This morning when praying, I was immediately moved and awakened. I think it's the Holy Spirit's protection within me.
3. I thank God for leading my daughter to be willing to tutor other children (online). Judging by the first lesson, the impact of tutoring might be minimal. But more importantly, it's about building and exchanging relationships.
