---
title: Have You Ever Been Alone with God?
date: 2021-01-11 22:41:27+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- devotional-notes
translationKey: have-you-ever-been-alone-with-god
slug: have-you-ever-been-alone-with-god
source_hash: 6c72e2747e7dce6122924de3a1454eba8562da607595743b40b75dd72ee6fc0c
---

Jan 12, 2021 at 6:07 AM

He explained everything to his disciples when they were alone. (Mark 4:34)

In my life, even now when I am almost in a state of seclusion, there are still many people and things constantly affecting my mood and state of being. However, as Brother Oswald Chambers said this morning, "Others' lives are merely illustrations; what God wants is our reflection on ourselves," my renewal and transformation come by being alone before God, and only in this way.

"When no one else is around," the time when I am alone with myself might be the most honest. But it still may be prideful and arrogant, thinking I understand and know myself well. Such "thinking" is still based on my perspectives and standards, feeling that I am "doing okay."

However, if I truly spend time alone with Jesus, I will see myself through true eyes and say, "Woe is me! For I am undone; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts."

I pray that the Lord helps me to be willing to spend time alone with Jesus.

Brother Oswald Chambers said, "The transformation of a person's life to align with God's will is a slow process." I am an example of this myself. I am thankful for God's love and patience. Seeing my slowness helps me understand others' slowness even more.

Thanksgivings:

1. Grateful for the exchange with Sister Z. Their family is a great example of a Christian family.
2. Thankful for a particular matter. Although we are still exploring and seeking, this situation itself has much meaning: Yanbing and I have gained deeper understanding and research in this direction, and the children (mainly our daughter) can participate in and directly experience the real nature and limitations of interest balances and human hearts;
3. Thankful for our daughter's school. Recently, during discussions with our daughter, her thinking and expressive abilities have slightly surprised me (perhaps there was no prior occasion for such in-depth exchanges), and her strategic advice makes me feel like I've prematurely entered old age;
