---
title: Have You Been Alone with God? (Part 2)
date: 2021-01-12 22:29:55+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- devotional-notes
translationKey: have-you-been-alone-with-god-part-2
slug: have-you-been-alone-with-god-part-2
source_hash: 22571d52ea7791c33739b9b779998263544fedb93163dadbf68e571497cb9f17
---

Jan 13, 2021 at 6:01 AM

When he was alone, those around him with the Twelve asked him about the parables. (Mark 4:10)

Brother Chambers said that God uses various situations to lead us into solitude to deal with our hearts.

When I'm entangled in situations, I often think the "situation" itself is too important, which makes it "significant," leaving me indecisive. However complex a situation may seem, it's actually simple—ultimately, it boils down to "weighing the pros and cons," something even my 11-year-old daughter can judge.

At the end of the day, situations return to the "heart." Situations that trap me usually bring up these issues in my heart: fear, worry, self-blame, anxiety, insecurity, bitterness, hatred...

These heart issues need to be "dealt with" and cleared before God. Otherwise, even if I "get by" for the moment, similar situations will come up again, triggering the same issues.

For many years, insecurity was a heart issue I have been dealing with, and I’ve made quite some progress. Currently, "fear" is what I must face (and it seems my children must face it too).

Gratitude:

1. Interacting with WD and participating in book club discussions. YJ shared something profound: "Most descriptions in the Bible aren't about victory; they are in the wilderness, in distress, in doubt—this is the real human condition. What makes people of faith, like the psalmists, worth emulating is their genuine expression of self, and even while crying out 'Where is God?' or cursing 'dash their infants against the rocks' in distress and depression, they remain connected to God."
2. Grateful for Sister WL's help;
3. In the evening, I guided my son in reading aloud, having him follow my lips (despite my somewhat imperfect Mandarin), and his previously unclear pronunciation became clear. I'm very pleased with the child's obedience (though he received some discipline along with candy rewards) and change;
