---
title: Reflections on Faith
date: 2025-04-01 14:11:43+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- north-america-journey
- christian-faith
translationKey: reflections-on-faith
slug: reflections-on-faith
source_hash: 130ef0d76e1857dea0b1989a0bfc85d5f95652fbe7cf93fe2beac9b31c59a382
---

Since arriving in the United States in August 2022, whether in Los Angeles for the first two years or later in Dallas, my faith has fluctuated and remained relatively low. Everything in my external environment seems fine, and life appears to be on track. Perhaps because of this, I felt that faith did not seem so important, and there weren't any major issues, so I just went along like that.

For over two years now, I haven't stopped attending gatherings, still going to worship every week. But to be honest, I haven't truly pursued God with all my heart and effort, nor have I done everything in my power to draw closer to Him. As for serving God, I haven't fulfilled the responsibilities and effort that I should have. This is something I must candidly admit.

Now, I have fallen into a spiritual low. I feel that I must make a change. I need to make a decision: If I truly believe in Jesus Christ, if I have truly experienced His presence and grace, then I must change my current lukewarm state.

I want to take my faith seriously, sincerely pursuing God—with all my heart, soul, and mind, running this path with all my will.

Conversely, if I feel that this faith is dispensable to me, then I shouldn't continue living in this ambiguous state, and should simply leave.

So, it's time to make a choice.
