---
title: Believe or Not
date: 2012-04-20 02:00:07+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- reading-notes
translationKey: believe-or-not
slug: believe-or-not
source_hash: c2cc941610767488f87b9182b9f9ad79bde8ad17672526cfd3f7e4e61a46ee5f
---

Over the course of about a month, I slowly made my way through ["The God I Don't Understand"](http://book.douban.com/subject/3649304/).
> "We either choose that God exists and live according to that fact, or choose that God does not exist and live according to that fact."

This quote struck me. I asked myself: What do I choose? Do I choose that God exists, or do I choose that God does not exist?

Just by looking at this beautiful world, I cannot deny the existence of a Creator.

Yet, in my past life, I often found myself struggling between "acknowledging God" and "denying God," whether due to life's challenges, my limited understanding of God, or clashes of different values... In short, I always "acknowledged or denied God based on my emotions and feelings." Today, I learned from this quote: if I choose the fact that God exists, then I should strive to live by that fact. Although the journey will certainly not be smooth, and I will experience various states, it's about holding onto this fact. This is faith, isn't it? At the same time, I believe I am not struggling alone, relying solely on myself would surely lead to failure. In this process, God will help.

Prayer: Creator God, I am willing to acknowledge that You are the Creator and living God. In the past, I have often fallen and denied God because of my stumbles. Lord, I am willing to affirm You, and even in adversity and low points, not deny the fact of God's existence. Lord, I need Your help, I am willing to become strong and mature. I pray in Jesus' name.
