---
title: Becoming a Designer
date: 2009-07-08 04:19:27+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- career
- design
- design thinking
translationKey: becoming-a-designer
slug: becoming-a-designer
source_hash: ecf25af223cf1f13f354ed6250fd87e1cc5c82022b54f8a987b3d0e00d90c99f
---

Last week, Feng Zhou invited me to join their company to take charge of product design.

We had a meeting, and it felt good. It's a startup with good opportunities and compensation. I was almost tempted.

While accompanying hymns with guitar on Sunday, I suddenly realized my guitar skills were really poor. After almost two years of learning, I shouldn't be at this level. Although the singers weren't quite aware of the quality of the guitar playing, I was very clear about it.

Reflecting on guitar practice, I gradually recognized a flawed path I've been on for years. An imperfect, even erroneous path.

It can't be denied that I know a lot about many things and seem proficient to those around me. But I know I'm just a jack of all trades.

Of course, I'm willing to focus—perhaps on design. But there's always so much in the way, from others not recognizing my work, making it easy to give up, to the incessant allure of industries with higher pay. I can't ever settle down.

I love design, but it's clear that what I know and do right now is just scratching the surface of design.

In truth, I know nothing about design, it's a blank slate.

When facing a project, where do I begin? Is it piecing together graphics? Stacking colors? Creating masses of visually stimulating imagery?

I'm planning to delve deeper into design this year than ever before.

Lately, I've been quite busy. Busy with work and side projects. These have taken too much of my time. Slowly learning to make choices and give up.

To let go, is to gain.

I want to continue walking down the path of design.

Last week, I was invited by Feng Zhou to his company, to be in charge of product design. We met and had some communication. It's a startup with good chances and good treatment, which feels good. I was nearly persuaded.

Each week, I play guitar at church for hymns. Suddenly, I realized how poor my guitar skills are, considering I've studied for almost two years. Though the singers aren't clear about the quality of the guitar playing, I'm well aware of it.

I reflected through guitar playing, and then the path that I'd run for these years started to clear up; it's a wrong path.

Yes, I know many things, I'm excellent in others' eyes....{to be continued}
