---
title: What Should I Do?
date: 2023-11-05 06:19:25+00:00
draft: false
tags: []
translationKey: what-should-i-do
slug: what-should-i-do
source_hash: e6ffc0ba06e1561edcb8b2f6bd11da55d85d36890e3f190ce3f7f969780473fc
---

From a college graduate in my twenties to now entering middle age, there has been one question that keeps recurring over the past two decades, entangling me, without ever having an ideal answer. That question is: What exactly should I do? (Put more elegantly, what is my dream? In a Christian context, what is God's calling for me?)

The circumstances and mindset I have in facing this question now are very different from back then. Although I was somewhat idealistically stubborn when I was young, never having the ability to force myself to do what I didn’t want to, now it seems I long more for something that supposedly "secures my place and life." Perhaps I overemphasize this, unconsciously bordering on idolatry. But undeniably, this is my genuine thought now.

I don’t struggle with whether this aligns with God's will. From a simple understanding and experience, what matters is not what I choose to do, but living a proper faith-based life every day while choosing and doing it.

It must be something (an industry) I am interested in. Besides design, I’m also interested in these things: painting, cooking, writing, and crafts.

There is no need to worry too much about short-term financial returns. The premise is to carefully control living costs. But in the long run, this endeavor should accumulate value. Moreover, it should not be limited by age, something I could still do at sixty or seventy (it seems painting, writing, and cooking meet this standard).

I hope, through this pursuit, to engage and interact with the outside world. Especially, for someone like me who lives relatively isolated in America.
