---
title: Do the Little Things
date: 2012-01-07 13:20:13+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- entrepreneurship
- hangzhou
translationKey: do-the-little-things
slug: do-the-little-things
source_hash: c43ecb54c534661663190ec310a2af0591235885c41547d50b04782f849db0ec
---

2012 New Year's Day, I spent the entire day drafting what I thought was an executable New Year’s plan. For the first five days, I lived according to the plan: a balanced routine of work, study, and entertainment; I cleaned up immediately, keeping the home tidy; I cooked meals like baked fish, made grape juice, and even cut myself a plate of fruit. Life was indeed good, neat and orderly. On a larger scale, I had direction for product design; on a smaller scale, life was full of flavor. My faith was in a good state too.

－－

On the 6th, I met with investors to discuss investment and the establishment of the company. The premise of the negotiation was that the product was reliable. So, I felt the responsibility and pressure regarding the product.

This was where my New Year’s plan began to crumble.

Suddenly, my life focused entirely on product design, and I was unwilling to spend time on anything outside of this. (Perhaps some people agree with this state.) But my life began to fall apart. I didn't care about tidying or organizing, even though it only took seconds; I didn’t care about cooking, just managed meals casually, let alone washing dishes; I didn’t care to brush my teeth or wash my face; I didn’t care to take out the kitchen trash; I didn’t care to throw laundry into the washing machine; I didn't care...

Chaos.

Life became chaotic, and my mindset became restless. Although work tightly gripped my heart, there was no progress, and I was filled with anxiety, worry, and a loss of confidence.

Clearly, there was an issue with my lifestyle and mental state; I had placed too much importance on work.

Work is a way to worship God, but work is not the object of worship; in other words, love work, but don’t love it more than you love God.

－－

Tonight at 7:30, although I was hungry, I still didn't feel like making something to eat. It was raining, and I didn’t want to go out to eat, nor did I know what I wanted to eat.

Finally, too hungry, I scrambled three eggs with leftover rice from lunch. You know, it was the same at lunch, except with two eggs.

After eating, as I placed the plate in the sink, I couldn't help but laugh. The sink was piled with dishes; there were no clean plates left at home.

－－

Why did life become like this?

I tried hard to suppress the thought of "wasting time" and decided to clean up.

In fact, tidying up doesn’t take much time; precisely, the process of washing dishes, wiping the counter, cleaning inside and outside the microwave, and the rice cooker, carefully and meticulously, gave my brain relaxation and rest, and my heart became calm; I thoroughly enjoyed that time.

－－

So, I realized that these little things I was unwilling to do are precisely what humble me. It’s easy for the heart to become proud, always thinking that spending time on "big things" is the only way to demonstrate self-worth, especially for career-driven men.

Doing little things every day is great :)
