---
title: My Son Anran
date: 2025-04-05 22:50:21+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- parenting
- anran
translationKey: my-son-anran
slug: my-son-anran
source_hash: 6667e981bf3e47b42d4eb89d9a40133da8c2331a59788d6a0259642785078e8b
---

My son Anran is now ten years old. When he was eight, our family immigrated to the United States.

He is an introverted, sensitive child who cares for others. He's very creative and has strong hands-on skills. He often thoughtfully helps out the family with chores and has many good qualities. He's also very obedient to his parents—sometimes out of willingness, sometimes perhaps just out of habit, seeming almost compelled.

One noticeable flaw in Anran is his tendency to be rather carefree in what he does. Additionally, he often forgets to return things to their original place after using them.

One night, he was warned by a teacher at school for some behavior. Although I didn't scold him harshly, both of us were not in a good mood. Before bedtime, I urged him to tidy up his room quickly and get some rest. But when I saw another stack of white paper piled up on his desk, I momentarily lost it. I said, "Why is there another stack of paper here? Wasn't there also a stack yesterday? How can you be so casual with using paper? Isn't this something we pay for?"

At that moment, Anran became somewhat anxious and didn't dare say a word, just quietly bowing his head to straighten up. He moved quickly, looking flustered.

Just as I was about to turn and leave, something happened that left me feeling utterly guilty: unintentionally, I noticed that after organizing the paper, he was about to head into his room but suddenly saw another item on the floor. He immediately turned back quickly to pick it up. His anxious and bewildered look really broke my heart.

That night, my mood was very low. There are many things my son cannot change for now, or perhaps lacks the ability to change. And I, myself, have many issues that I cannot change for now either. We are the same.

In such times, all I feel is my own inadequacy and helplessness. I can only come before God, asking for the Lord's help and mercy.
