---
title: About Community
date: 2011-10-19 09:51:24+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- design
translationKey: about-community
slug: about-community
source_hash: 71164f8468db2d5d502e614cae52b12abab514c0c192d2c07fc01d09a733227d
---

Scattered thoughts, just jotting them down:

1. In a community, 5% are opinion leaders, 15% are active users, and 5% of active users strive to become opinion leaders.

2. Libraries do not lack "users", but they cannot form a community. To users, a library is more of a "tool" with no interaction between users. In contrast, basketball courts foster social interaction through the "physical contact" of team or pickup games. However, basketball courts are somewhat niche. The greatest value is in creating a university, where various niche interests can flourish.

3. If there's an application that can keep two people in a constant conversation, then it's both a primitive and successful form of social networking. However, in real life, sustained attention and interaction between two people are difficult because "relationships" change with "external conditions" such as distance, status, identity, interests, and occupation. There are no permanent social relationships.

4. In life, you most frequently contact up to five people (excluding specific professions). This is true for me and for many of my friends as well. If a "social tool" could help someone expand their social network (online or offline), how many relationships could an ordinary person maintain? Of course, relationships vary in strength.
