---
title: On Death - April 4, 2020
date: 2020-04-06 00:45:44+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflections
translationKey: on-death-april-4-2020
slug: on-death-april-4-2020
source_hash: 6eaeb6a975c7a1d254d76ed6994fafaec3a76a9147bf43ec585942cb3e204882
---

In times when my faith is at its lowest, I even question whether I truly believe in Jesus. However, there's one thing that has become increasingly clear to me and undeniable: in my daily life, I am no longer afraid or worried about death. I emphasize "daily life" here because I haven't yet come close to experiencing death firsthand (I might still be nervous at that moment, hopefully not afraid).

This fearlessness toward death isn’t because of any change in environment or self-awareness training. I genuinely believe it’s entirely due to my Christian faith, my knowledge of and trust in Christ. So from this perspective, no matter how weak I am, I cannot deny that I am a Christian.

Not only do I not fear death, but I also, in a way, look forward to it. Of course, it’s not death itself I anticipate, but the eternal life in God's presence. That world would be entirely different from our current world filled with sin, war, injustice, pain, hunger, and emptiness. Imagine if such a perfect world didn’t exist and we were left to live only in an imperfect world; it would be immensely sad and regretful.

---

**Attached is an article I wrote in 2013 reflecting on death.**

This happened at the end of 2013. Because of my rhinitis, I often came across news about nasopharyngeal cancer at that time. I was very worried and scared. Before the Lunar New Year, I went to the hospital for a nasopharyngoscopy, which was pretty much my mental journey while waiting for results at home during the festival.

--

I don't know what the results will be, but the presence of death always makes people stop and reflect amidst the noise and rush of the world. I am grateful for the opportunity to "pause." Reflecting on these past three months, I’ve been living in a kind of disconnection from God. If I quiet down and think about it, living like this is a form of death; without God, being alive is also a kind of death. However, with God, natural death isn’t something to fear, as there is eternal life and resurrection in Jesus.
  
Everyone dies, so whether it happens sooner or later is fair for everyone. Hence, there’s no need to complain about destiny being unfair; accept it gladly. Can anyone control their own life or death? No! And I believe that the Lord of Life loves me so much, so whether in life or death, it is all in His good purpose. Compared to earthly life, I look forward to eternal life after death; in some sense, death is better than life.

I’m not afraid of death, but I do worry about my family. If I were to leave, who would provide for my family, take care of my wife, and raise my children? Dying would be easy for me, but it would be a heavy burden on Yanbing. (At this point, I've broken down in tears) I imagine if I had millions, could I then let go of concerns for my family and embrace my eternal life with peace? How little faith I have! I believe in God, who transcends death, who is the ultimate authority, but also loves me and my family. Surely, he would provide for my family’s needs? With that thought, I am relieved. Even in moments of weakness when worries arise, let me cling to God’s words and trust Him completely.

I’m not dead yet. Or perhaps, God wants me to live.

If I am to live, how should I spend my remaining days? Maybe a year, maybe five years, maybe ten, maybe thirty.

Do I still pursue material things so much in my heart? Do I still exist as I do now—alive in body, yet dry in soul? Do I still live without a sense of mission like I do now?

Lord, I am so weak. The world pulls me, and I can’t overcome it; I am selfish, without love, unwilling to give myself to others unless you inspire and push me to love.

If I am to live, I am willing to be your vessel, to spread your word, to bring your gospel to the people around me; I am willing to let go of the pursuit of material things and completely trust in your provision for daily bread; I am willing for every decision to be one that looks to you and is filled with faith; I am willing to lead my family, parents, siblings, wife, and children before you; this is my mission.
