---
title: On Fishing
date: 2025-04-03 16:14:57+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- north-america-travelogue
- fishing
translationKey: on-fishing
slug: on-fishing
source_hash: 51ec9e722c9c2d775e4f05a77388db5bf7f8070c23d90ddd7b8d5ae32b1b65c1
---

Fishing holds a great allure for me. For its sake, I am willing to wake up at 3 a.m. on a winter's morning when it's minus seven degrees. I bundle up in three down coats, a sweater, three pairs of pants, and three pairs of socks, then don gloves and a hat to drive forty kilometers to a secluded state park lake, braving the biting cold to begin fishing.

Why does fishing captivate me so intensely? Sometimes, I feel it's become an idol in my heart, surpassing the realm of a mere hobby. Consequently, I want to seriously analyze its allure.

## The Sense of Achievement from Learning.

Like anything else, fishing requires continuous learning. If you're a beginner with no knowledge of fishing techniques, environment, or fish habits, the reality can be harsh—you simply won’t catch fish. Sometimes, you might get lucky and catch one, but luck won’t stay with you forever.

To catch fish, you must keep learning: understanding techniques, fish behavior, weather changes, and more. Seek advice, mimic actions, and learn about the equipment. Consult various resources as well. Once these efforts accumulate, one day, a fish bites, followed by a second and third. The progress from initial failures to reliably catching fish brings a real and profound sense of satisfaction.

## The Thrill of a Bite.

I use the lure fishing method, which is relatively proactive. Waiting by the quiet lakeside, suddenly feeling a "thud" vibrating down the fishing line signals a fish bite. In that moment, adrenaline surges, bringing immense excitement. Then comes the setting of the hook, the fight, and reeling the fish in. The whole process is exhilarating.

Sometimes I find myself lying in bed, repeatedly reliving the moment of the fish bite. The sensation and surprise are truly unforgettable.

## Solitary, Peaceful Moments Fishing Offers Me.

I particularly enjoy standing alone by the lake in a green park. The lake is as calm as a mirror, stars dot the sky, a gentle breeze brushes by, and occasionally a water bird flies across. In those moments, I hold the fishing rod quietly, letting my thoughts gradually empty.

In such an environment, I can even hear my own breath, immersing in a state of peace and focus. These solitary times are extremely precious, and, of course, wouldn't be possible without my wife's silent support and sacrifice.

## The Satisfaction of Bringing Home Fish.

Though this isn't the part I care about most, bringing fish home to share with family and friends is a wonderful experience. Especially my one-year-old daughter, who becomes exceptionally excited every time she sees me bringing fish home and loves watching them swim in the water. Her joy deeply satisfies me.

## Admiration and Handling of Fishing Equipment.

Like hobbies such as photography, cars, and bicycles, fishing gear itself is also filled with fun. Although I’m not obsessed with having the best gear, preferring what is "good enough," I still greatly appreciate the precise design and craftsmanship of fishing rods and reels. Their beauty is captivating.

## Admiration and Praise from Others.

As a novice turning into a seasoned angler, catching fish when others can't, the admiration and praise from others certainly gratifies me. I admit there's a mix of pride and vanity in this. On the other hand, I've met many friends through fishing, and the opportunity to share ideas and experiences is delightful. Recently, I've even tried sharing my faith with fellow Chinese anglers during fishing, and a couple of attempts have been fruitful, which is a valuable experience for me.

Fishing, in itself, isn't inherently negative. It can be positive or negative, depending on our attitude towards it.

I admit I've spent more time on fishing than I should have. But what confounds me is that I've always been someone who throws themselves wholeheartedly into their passions. For example, I've learned web design, painting, and woodworking, and these have become part of my career or life.

I long to have dialogues with others: how to throw yourself fully into what you love without losing balance? How do you find that path of moderation? This is a question I'm still exploring.
