---
title: About Weddings
date: 2009-01-06 23:23:14+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- marriage
- cynicism
translationKey: about-weddings
slug: about-weddings
source_hash: 879a7daac4ad566606af3d861cc0b4e75663fde9f000ce828a848c720cff0d6e
---

Recently, this year, many friends and classmates have gotten married, including my sister, Yang Yang, Tan Lu, and Tang Liu. Congratulations to you all.

However, when friends and classmates ask me about weddings, particularly about how much money to give as a gift, and when they scour their social circles to find a suitable amount, it bothers me. If they give too much, it's hard to part with; if they give less compared to others, they fear losing face or damaging relationships.

I really dislike these types of questions.

I fundamentally oppose and strive to distance myself from everything that's superficial and insincere.

When I joined a Christian family church in 2006, Brother Zhou mentioned that a sister in Shanghai was getting married and asked if anyone wanted to attend the wedding. Several people signed up. I was internally calculating how much money to give. But Brother Zhou said that a simple gift would do, like a bouquet of flowers or a card filled with blessings, or even just a prayer of blessing. I immediately felt very relaxed and at ease. Later, their wedding was simple but very touching, and they received many sincere blessings.

Ironically, a friend once boasted that on their wedding night, after the guests left, the couple sat on the bed counting the cash gifts (including how much each person gave), spreading the money all over the bed.

Absurd. Sad. A ceremony celebrating life's greatest blessings had turned into a transaction.

Recently, I've been discussing weddings more often because I might be getting married this year. Haha.

So, regarding the issue of weddings, I feel it's necessary to make a statement:

1. If a friend is too far away, I won't attend the wedding, and I hope friends can understand. Theoretically, marriage is your business, and as a friend, just knowing you're getting married is enough;
2. I won't give money because I don't have any. But a small gift (no more than 100 yuan) is fine. Haha.
3. At my wedding, giving money is strictly prohibited. I refuse to accept money, including from married friends who have received gifts from me. A small token is enough, no more than 50 yuan, though I do want your blessings.

If any friends or classmates see my statement, please pass it along: "Wang Nan, this crazy, heartless guy who doesn't value friendships, has made a ridiculous wedding declaration." Thank you.

If you can't understand my statement, please don't invite me to your wedding or come to mine. I don't mind losing such a friend.

I hope the relationships between friends can be as simple and unadorned as water.
