---
title: Experience of a 'Former Shanghai Resident' Catching Covid in the US After 54 Days
date: 2022-10-04 05:25:47+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- covid-19
- north-america-adventures
translationKey: experience-former-shanghai-resident-catching-covid-54-days-u
slug: experience-former-shanghai-resident-catching-covid-54-days-u
source_hash: 42e2d4ee970cc0ec564841594c9801327078986fadc77d6af5464a99c95ad682
---

I've been infected with Covid-19 for three days so far. It's too early to say I'm fully recovered, but I'm no longer feeling any significant discomfort, and my energy is slowly coming back. This morning, I even swept the leaves in the yard with some enthusiasm. When I posted about my wife's Covid infection in my social circle, family and friends sent their regards and kind reminders, expressing their concern. My parents, in particular, must be quite worried.

Therefore, during my recovery period, where I'm transitioning from 'Yang-gone' to 'Yang-healed' (a play on words with the Chinese terms "阳过" for having had Covid and "阳康" for recovering from it), I feel it's necessary and my responsibility to document the experience of contracting Covid-19 in the U.S. This is to offer some insight beyond the "unwavering zero-Covid policy." My aim is not to evaluate various Covid-19 policies (those who know me probably know where I stand) but to honestly record the infection experience, bodily reactions, and the responses from those around me, in the role of a familiar, trusted family member, friend, or former colleague.

**Infection Experience**

On September 25, our family flew from Los Angeles to Orlando (a 5-hour flight) to attend a week-long closed-door conference. Unluckily, we faced a rare major hurricane during our stay in Orlando, so like the 400-500 Americans who traveled from various states and cities to attend, we were mostly stuck in the hotel for the week. Both at the airport and on the plane, as well as in the hotel, we noticed that hardly anyone in the U.S. was wearing a mask. As newly arrived Chinese in America, we were cautious and wore masks in the airport and on the plane. However, during the conference, in an environment where almost no one wore a mask (including many Chinese), keeping our masks on felt odd—not due to the gaze of others, but out of respect. So, we went without.

On September 28, my wife felt unwell and started coughing, more severely at night. She only felt an itchy throat with no pain. Several friends traveling with us confirmed their own infections. Throughout this period, our family of four stayed in a small, double-bed hotel room, eating, watching the news, and sharing a bathroom, while my wife wore a mask. Catching Covid required no reporting to any agency or individuals, not even the hotel; wearing a mask willingly sufficed.

On the morning of October 1, we returned to Los Angeles. On the flight back, we wore masks the entire time. After landing and during the cab ride home, I began feeling unwell and presumably caught it too. Sure enough, after getting home, I started having a fever. My wife, whose symptoms had eased, was bedridden again due to travel fatigue. We isolated ourselves upstairs while the kids played with Legos and read books downstairs. Drowsy and worried about the kids having to fend for themselves (with a nearly empty fridge), I felt lonely and helpless (unlike in Shanghai, where friends abound). This was my only truly sad moment during Covid. Thankfully, Lily, a church member, helped buy and deliver groceries. By evening, my wife could get up and prepare a simple dinner. Though I was caught between fever spikes, I remained quite lucid. If necessary, I could still get up and move, but I took the chance to rest luxuriously.

The night of October 1 was the toughest. Having slept too long during the day, and possibly due to inflammation, my joints ached and required frequent position changes; lying down felt uncomfortable, resulting in poor sleep quality. Likely due to the fever muddling my consciousness, I kept categorizing my sleeping positions in an attempt to find one that allowed me to fall asleep, as if solving a product design issue. This exhausted my energy and focus. I barely "slept through" the night and only dozed off a bit past 8 AM.

On the night of October 2, my sleep improved significantly, and my wife hardly coughed. Around 3 AM, after getting up for water, I struggled to fall back asleep. Based on past experience, I played hymns at a very low volume, requiring concentration to hear clearly. By quietly focusing on the music and lyrics, I inadvertently fell asleep.

By October 3, I experienced brief fever episodes, but they weren't frequent, and my energy gradually returned. I felt relatively assured by then. Though friends in the U.S. urged us to relax, the real relief came from sensing recovery in my own body.

**Symptoms**

Individuals exhibit different symptoms. Among the five or six infected around me this past week, symptoms mainly consisted of coughing and fever (surprisingly, no runny noses). My situation started with fever, then evolved into body aches (partly due to prolonged lying down), fatigue, throat ache, and occasional phlegm-induced coughing.

**Responses**

Self-isolation at home: As mentioned, my wife and I isolated in the master bedroom upstairs (with a private bathroom and shower), wearing masks all day. The kids stayed active downstairs during the day and slept in their rooms upstairs at night. We kept windows open for ventilation in each room 24/7. Evidently, effective isolation was beyond us, as my wife, despite being infected, still cooked for the family.

Unexpectedly, this stage of the virus doesn't cause loss of taste, which is crucial, as lost taste would affect food intake. For us, especially me, Covid-19 did not impact our appetites. Hence, we ate as usual—mainly eggs, meat, vegetables, fruits, milk, and bread. One day, I ate grapes in the morning, a plum in the afternoon, and a banana at night.

Beyond diet, drinking plenty of water (with added Vitamin C) was important.

Regarding medication, before the 3rd, I took Tylenol about four or five times, one tablet each time, with no other medication.

On Sunday afternoon, I emailed our kids’ teacher to explain our situation (parents infected, children in the same room, kids tested negative). Since it was the weekend and the teacher might not respond, we promised not to send the kids to school without the school’s response. On Monday morning, we contacted the teacher. After confirmation, as long as the children are negative and feel well, they can attend school, with no need for proof or test reports—parents’ word suffices. So, we’ll test the kids again in the morning (not to betray others' trust), and if negative, we’ll send them to school.

Finally, I forgot to mention that before coming to the U.S., our family had two doses of the Sinovac vaccine. According to friends in the U.S., different vaccines result in varying symptom severities: Pfizer's clears up in two to three days, while Sinopharm might take over a week.
