---
title: North American Home Buying Experience
date: 2026-04-30 10:05:00-06:00
draft: false
tags:
- invest
translationKey: north-american-home-buying-experience
slug: north-american-home-buying-experience
source_hash: a7cce166244fc5e2d98db01c3180d4bb0f074c3cfcad1419726162481b28aac7
---

As of now, I have purchased a total of four homes. In 2015, I bought a 76 square-meter apartment in Changsha, which I sold in 2022. In 2019, I bought a second apartment in Shanghai, 88 square meters, which I also sold in 2022. In 2023, I purchased a third home in Los Angeles (2,500 square feet), selling it in August 2024. In July 2024, I bought a 3,300 square-foot house in Dallas, where I currently live.

I would like to share some of my experiences in buying and choosing homes. These insights mainly apply to buying homes in North America, but may also be applicable domestically.

### Location and School Districts
To me, it’s become a mindset: while a house is a dwelling, it is also an investment product.

I find it difficult to guarantee that I’ll live in one place for a lifetime, so each time I buy a house, I consider what features will stand out when I eventually sell it. Naturally, location and the school district are the most important factors.

Although it may seem like school districts aren’t a big deal in North America, in reality, everyone cares about them—not just Asians. If you buy a home in an area heavily populated by Asians (e.g., Chinese) such as Los Angeles or Dallas, choosing a home near a high-rated school district will be a big advantage when selling.

Living amenities are also crucial, especially if you have children—access to educational resources is vital. These include not only schools but also extracurricular classes and training institutions. One regret with my current home is that all my children’s extracurricular activities are on the other side of the city.

### Choosing Neighbors
Whether in China or America, interactions with neighbors are usually minimal, and relationships can be quite distant. In the U.S., neighbors might politely say hi, but that’s often the extent of it. Despite this, having good neighbors is extremely important.

What makes a good neighbor? It’s hard to define, but I can mention some counterexamples:

Neighboring yards are in poor condition; items are cluttered around (even if it doesn’t spill into my space, it’s still unpleasant to see). Lawns and trees are unkempt, overgrown with weeds.

Neighbor’s cars constantly fill up the street, even blocking my driveway. Although driveways in front of one’s house in the U.S. are public, it’s uncomfortable if they’re occupied for long.

Neighbors host frequent parties, making noise late into the night. They have pets that are poorly managed, causing noise disturbances, such as continuous barking. When I greet them, they are curt and show no interest in interacting. Neighbors will complain or fuss about even minor issues.

My method for choosing neighbors focuses on observing details.

In the U.S., the best and easiest detail to observe is how neighbors maintain their lawns and trim their trees. If someone takes pride in these small details, it’s a good sign. Also, check their cars—not the brand, but the condition and cleanliness, as well as the number of vehicles parked around.

I observe at different times, like morning, noon, and night, to understand the neighbors’ lifestyle, community traffic, and overall tranquility.

### Choosing a Year
If there’s a new house available, I’ll go for it—no question. However, the concept of "new house" varies between regions: in the Los Angeles area, a house from 1989 is relatively new; in Dallas, houses post-2020 might be considered newer.

Everyone knows to buy new, but the choice isn’t that simple in practice.

Some older homes have excellent traits, such as:
1. High-quality renovations.
2. Proximity to schools within the same district.
3. More convenient living amenities.

Choosing a new home under these circumstances often involves compromise, like sacrificing renovation quality or location.

In such cases, I still lean towards buying new.

### Attention to Detail
When viewing houses in the U.S., all listed homes look exceptionally neat, well-maintained, and sometimes tastefully decorated, presenting a cozy and quality-driven image. However, don’t be deceived by appearances.

One of my favorite areas to inspect is under the kitchen sink. I focus on two main points:

1. Tidiness of item placement
   If the space under the sink is tidy and there are few items, it tells me the homeowner is meticulous and pays attention to details. If they care for such unnoticeable areas, the rest must be well-kept, too.

2. Smell and dryness
   I check for any musty smell. This is crucial. Whether the area is dry and clean indicates how the homeowner maintains the property and reflects their lifestyle.

### Considering Price
A simple truth is that I can’t buy a home at the lowest price, nor sell at the highest. Many times, price is both an objective and subjective matter.

1. Objective aspects:
   This requires extensive research, such as checking nearby housing market trends and sale prices on real estate websites, as well as the quality of the homes. Consider more than just price; also evaluate location, year of construction, and overall condition.

   Attend nearby open houses to gauge pricing for similar quality homes. Look at both listed properties and closed sales to gain an understanding of the current market dynamics.

2. Subjective aspects:
   Often, price isn’t just about high or low—it's about feeling right at the moment of purchase, without feeling cheated or exploited. It’s not about minor differences in cost, but about avoiding the feeling of being duped or foolish, which is deeply undesirable.

### Feeling is Key

For homes I’m genuinely interested in, I schedule multiple viewings with the agent at various times. Once comfortable, I focus not on the essentials but on the feel: does this house feel like "home"?

Of course, you need some imagination—imagine what living there would feel like:
1. The lighting, interior flow, and ambiance, particularly at night—do they convey warmth, coziness, relaxation?
2. Is the environment quiet, and does the community offer a sense of peace and tranquility?

Sometimes, I ask the agent to wait outside while I quietly spend time alone in the house, even turning off the lights to immerse myself in the atmosphere.

This, for me, is the final step in choosing a home—trusting my instincts.
