---
title: Self-Denial
date: 2012-05-22 14:27:29+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- workplace
translationKey: self-denial
slug: self-denial
source_hash: 2e4d5be4b8177a63be6e0ae97d4a62445e55edcaa696952cc0760d449c8515b3
---

It's really hard, when disagreements arise or conflicts occur, to first deny and reflect on oneself. People habitually protect themselves, sometimes choosing the wrong path to safeguard their own interests, pride, and dignity.

Even though I still don’t know the way forward, looking at things with a somewhat outsider's perspective feels much more relaxing. I'm no longer so concerned about gains and losses.

In Shanghai, talking with Brother Yantao, the attitude of "God has placed me here, in this position" is truly admirable. I wish to adopt such a mindset as well.

This past year seemed to waste a lot of time, but in retrospect, my inner self has undergone several changes. Many previous thoughts and motives have been refined significantly. However, I feel this purification process is just beginning.

I wish to become more mature before God. Recently, a phrase frequently comes to mind: "I no longer live, but Christ lives in me." With my personality and abilities, I have no confidence in continuing with this team; but I do have the confidence to engage with them with the attitude of "I am dead, and Christ lives in me."

When interacting with others, whether they are strangers, new friends, or close confidants, there is always joy, but conflicts can arise as well. There is mutual trust and mutual suspicion. How should I face these interactions? This is the lesson I must learn.

Today marks the first milestone for this team. After losing a bet and treating everyone to a meal, a question came to mind as I walked to the No. 17 bus stop: Why is it so difficult to deny oneself?
