---
title: The Urging of the Call
date: 2021-02-01 23:12:43+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- devotional-notes
translationKey: the-urging-of-the-call
slug: the-urging-of-the-call
source_hash: 38ac56e9c1e74a42061f7db1c496449c3c736131a0ec1e3daa1c81aff7b78ff3
---

Feb 2, 2021 at 6:26 AM

For when I preach the gospel, I cannot boast, since I am compelled to preach. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel! (1 Corinthians 9:16 NIV)

I have always avoided spreading the gospel.

Just now during prayer, I was still wondering: Is Paul's calling really my calling too?

In today's material, Brother Chambers mentioned, "The Lord did not make the conditions of being a disciple the conditions for being saved" (I'm not sure if this is correct). A cunning heart thinks: It's enough to be saved, no need to be a disciple. Being a disciple costs too much.

However, just like when we sincerely love someone, this love grows deeper; similarly, if I truly know God and sincerely love Him, then my love for God will deepen to the point where I am willing to "abandon everything and follow Him," and also willing to become "a vessel fit for the Master’s use," ready to be used and sent by Him.

My love for the Lord is little. But if at this moment, the Lord asks me: Do you want to love me? I would say, I want to love You. This is my desire, not forced.

Therefore, even if I am not sure whether Brother Chambers' statement "The Lord did not make the conditions of being a disciple the conditions for being saved" is correct, I do not wish to remain at the "saved" stage. I want to have a deeper, more intimate relationship with God and am willing to walk towards this identity of "disciple."

In this way, preaching the gospel involves me. Not preaching the gospel is also a woe to me.

I've always wanted to share the gospel with a close friend or family member, but have never acted. What is stopping me? After a moment of silence and thought, it seems there are no external obstacles; it's mainly reluctance and worry. Reluctance to engage with people whose lifestyle, speech, and interests are vastly different from mine. The worry mainly concerns the pandemic.

But not preaching the gospel brings woes. Isn't this woe greater than personal preferences? More frightening than the pandemic?

Gratitude:

1. Massaged my neck for ten minutes before sleeping, and my neck feels more relaxed this morning. Thank God for His care. The act of massaging is something I did, but whether my body can feel comfortable is not up to me. Thank God;
2. Last night, I cried and prayed in my sleep in a state of fearless, complete openness before God. It was very liberating, light, and peaceful. Even after waking up, I felt more relaxed than before;
3. Thank God for leading more conversations between Yanbing and me, thinking together about raising our child;
