---
title: Back to Basics
date: 2012-01-14 13:52:06+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- entrepreneurship
- hangzhou
translationKey: back-to-basics
slug: back-to-basics
source_hash: bab20391037aea28d80061475da116a6bafd58b407aaec5dd7487ee3534d9063
---

Over the past three months, our ability to "do things right" has been well proven. Upon reflection, whether by misfortune or fortune, we ultimately decided to change direction when considering whether we are "doing the right thing." Today's purpose of communication is to convey to investors this message: the adjusted direction is the "right thing," and we hope they will finalize their investment.

The form of the product already has complete models and usage scenarios in real life. The challenge is how to "move it online," how to use the "internet" to allow users to access maximum value at lower costs and higher efficiency. Frankly, I haven't figured this out; a simple analysis combined with intuition tells me this is a very good direction, albeit challenging and costly to verify.

Perhaps in "avoiding difficulties and challenges," I chose a relatively easier path, taking a route differentiated from peers by 45 or 60 degrees, which is evidently more relaxed.

When I presented this direction to the investor today, they questioned it and offered several suggestions:

- You must differentiate. In today's seemingly mature market, without differentiation, you cannot break through and find the most valuable path; ultimately, you would just be struggling for survival under the "big guy's coattails."
- Forget all the constraints, such as SNS connections, the six degrees of separation theory, and so on. Return to basics and use the "most suitable" form and combination to meet user needs.

Such "mantras" are actually long embedded in my heart; however, today, it indeed felt like a "wake-up call."

I sincerely accept this. I must calm down and think deeply. Also, today mentioned was "the ordinary mindset of an entrepreneur," with less restlessness and a drive to seek quick success and immediate profit, the journey could be longer. I agree and accept this.

Today wasn’t a successful negotiation; no terms and conditions were concretely settled. The only certainty is that operations will officially start after the New Year.

I can accept this result.

This is a challenge—a challenge of whether I truly have what it takes, whether I can handle this delicate craft.

Let's go, 2012.
