---
title: Christian Faith and Stock Investment
date: 2025-04-10 13:35:49+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- investment
translationKey: christian-faith-and-stock-investment
slug: christian-faith-and-stock-investment
source_hash: 47e586c860d7457905801dc2244a5272996b3d78e88bc7f04774ff896ceb50b2
---

Last night, I had a very strange dream about a brother I used to know in Hangzhou. He has temporarily stepped away from his faith. I reached out to him again this morning and had a simple conversation.

Since we hadn't been in touch for more than a year, our chat covered a wide range of topics, including faith, life, and work. I happened to learn he was involved in stock trading, which sparked a thought—I discussed with him the relationship between stocks and Christian faith.

There are a plethora of stocks to choose from in the world, just as there are many religions. However, there is a significant difference between the two. For an individual, you may choose not to buy any stocks, but faith is not quite the same. Even if you don't choose to believe in any religion, such as Christianity, by not making that choice, you inadvertently end up following a type of belief system. Thus, some say people aren't deciding whether to have faith, but rather what to put their faith in. Choosing not to believe is, in itself, a kind of belief.

So why would someone actively choose a faith, or, in other words, why choose to invest in a company's stock? A major reason is because they see intrinsic value and have hope in its long-term potential.

I shared candidly with this friend that although I have "held on" to Christian faith for nearly twenty years, I often still doubt God's existence. Sometimes, I find myself in a state distanced from faith, which is unfortunate. Yet, because I believe in the long-term value of this faith, I continue to "hold on." Of course, from a human perspective, it's actually God's mercy and protection that keep me in the faith.

This is very similar to the value investing principle I uphold. If you truly believe in the long-term value of a company or stock, you should "hold on" for the long term, rather than engaging in frequent buy-and-sell transactions. The same applies to faith—my faith journey has been filled with ups and downs, but once I truly commit, I maintain that "holding."

This "holding" process doesn't mean doing nothing, much like investing in stocks requires continuous learning to understand its intrinsic value. Christian faith is similar; we need to practice daily, nurturing our relationship with God, with others, and with ourselves.

If we must compare Christian faith with stocks, I think the strategy of "buying into" Christian faith is actually quite bold. It requires us to go all in. As said in Matthew 13, the kingdom of heaven is like treasure hidden in a field. When a man finds it, he hides it again, and in his joy, sells all he has and buys that field. The kingdom of heaven is also like a merchant looking for fine pearls. When he finds one of great value, he goes away and sells everything he has and buys it. I really like this investment strategy. Once you see clearly, you make the decision to go all in and resolutely "hold on."
