---
title: Outsider Pumpkin
date: 2021-11-06 11:26:39+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
translationKey: outsider-pumpkin
slug: outsider-pumpkin
source_hash: 7460fe5f86a4bab6c7cf86f124e2d867d06d13d44883e1a0ef369952af119bd6
---

**Outsider**

Growing up, I looked down on outsiders. In a corner of the village, there was a family that had migrated from Anhui. When the villagers talked about them, it was with the natural superiority of locals and disdain for outsiders. This "outsider" family interacted with the villagers respectfully, cautiously, and with a sense of inferiority. Over twenty years later, this summer while in my hometown of Changsha, talking with my parents, these "Anhui people" are still referred to as "outsiders" by the villagers.

Originally, I could have continued being a local of Changsha. Over a decade ago, I was skinny, timid, and inexperienced, yet I also wanted to see the world outside. Since then, I have been drifting away. Looking back, I am convinced it was God's guidance. Leaving Changsha, I termed it as my "leaving my hometown, my tribe, my father's house."

Seven years in Hangzhou, eight years in Shanghai, as an outsider, I miss my hometown and return to Changsha every year to reunite with family. I have wondered whether to move back with my family, but in recent years, I have felt that there is no going back. I once told my wife and children that it seems our family will always be "drifting." It has been so in the past, and it is likely in the future too. I understand the biblical concept of being "strangers and pilgrims on the earth," and I agree with it. Even with a house in Shanghai, a Shanghai license plate, and even a Shanghai household registration, I cannot escape being labeled as "an outsider." The "outsider" identity I refer to is not about this worldly life but about being a sojourner in this world. Inevitable death will end this journey, and I will return to my eternal home, eternal life in Jesus Christ.

In the future, every few years, we will likely continue to relocate and move our tent. But no matter where, I will always be an outsider and acknowledge it, embracing this identity label that I once considered humble and shameful.

**Pumpkin**

When I was young, I was short, with a big head, and my name contained the character "Nan." So, classmates and friends called me "Nan Gua Di" (meaning the smallest pumpkin in Changsha dialect). As someone with low self-esteem, I was always bothered by this nickname. During my growth, I felt self-conscious and troubled about my height (being short), appearance (sparse eyebrows, many moles on my face, crooked teeth...), and personality (introverted). It wasn't until after graduating from college that I began to accept myself. After coming to know Christ, I have mostly fully accepted myself.

In late autumn 2021 in Shanghai, I remembered "pumpkin," a nickname that hurt me thirty years ago, similar to the most common, humble pumpkin from rural Changsha (when oversupplied, debased as pig feed). I decided to write or do something under the name "Outsider Pumpkin." This name has a sense of self-mockery and reconciliation with myself. Indeed, it is so. I think it is through the Christian faith that I can accept myself.

Outsider Pumpkin.
