---
title: Great Sound Is Seldom Heard, Great Form Has No Shape
date: 2009-11-20 14:20:41+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflection
translationKey: great-sound-is-seldom-heard-great-form-has-no-shape
slug: great-sound-is-seldom-heard-great-form-has-no-shape
source_hash: d547b53bce16851a1ccb4529d6fb4fa413eb65af9eba5e55c833b6eafa3c8023
---

I am very fond of this phrase, which comes from Chapter 41 of Laozi's *Tao Te Ching*.

Literally, it means: the greatest sound seems sparse and faint; the most expansive, magnificent things elude our grasp of their shape.

But in my understanding, the "great sound" exists, it's just so vast that our limited hearing cannot detect it; the "great form" has a "shape," just so immense that our limited vision cannot see it.

For example, we can hear the shouts of children outside, the sound of a car engine starting, or the roar of a rocket launching. However, greater sounds, like the Earth's rotation, the movement within the earth's crust, or the orbiting of planets in the universe, remain silent to us. Why? Because human hearing is limited!

We can see tall mountains and vast seas, but we can't see beyond our planet. The universe is so large that we can't perceive it, even though we can see stars—only at night and when it's cloudless. Why? Human vision is also extremely limited.

Yet, we rely on this limited vision and hearing to understand the world, to judge, to define, and to conclude. Little do we realize, in the accumulation of "knowledge" over our growth, how much of it is inaccurate or even completely wrong. But we resist admitting it because denying oneself is so difficult. People only want to acknowledge things they can see and touch; in today's society, people also acknowledge only things that profit them, things that make money. Little do they realize that what is unseen is also real.

So, the [Little Prince](http://www.douban.com/subject/1084336/) says, "What is essential is invisible to the eye."

The Bible also says: "What is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal."

Why do some people, despite making money, feel an unfillable emptiness inside? Because the Bible tells us, "We fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen." There is a need for faith to fill this void.

---

Unconsciously, I end up tying this to faith. I indeed need faith. Everyone needs it, including you.
