---
title: What If Your Child Gets Separated in a Subway Station? Our Unexpected Experience
date: 2020-08-10 12:00:08+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- parent-child-relationship
translationKey: what-if-your-child-gets-separated-in-a-subway-station
slug: what-if-your-child-gets-separated-in-a-subway-station
source_hash: 67739144367a741b690a168fcaee3a6c8ea0f242b000fd3bbb17250bf2be09bd
---


On Sunday, around 7:30 in the morning, we set off from home by subway to attend church, feeling light and cheerful.

At Sanlin East Subway Station, we took the escalator to the platform. **I was in the lead, with my wife and two kids about ten steps behind.** The subway had already arrived, its doors wide open. So, I quickened my pace, saying "Hurry, the subway's here" as I went. Just a few seconds after I stepped through the doors, the warning sound "dong-dong-dong" for the doors closing began. At this moment, my wife, holding our son (5 years old) by the hand, hurriedly managed to slip inside as well. However, our 10-year-old daughter, who was just a step behind, saw the doors closing. Although I put my hand in to stop the door (a very dangerous move, but I had no choice where my child was concerned), which reopened it for a brief moment, she was a bit scared and didn't dare to come in. Then, the doors closed. Just like that, our 10-year-old daughter was separated from us.

With the doors sealed, we couldn't communicate verbally at all, and as the subway slowly pulled away, I motioned to her with several downward-pointing "forefinger" gestures 👇, trying to tell her to stay put. **But I wasn't at all sure she understood my message.**

En route to the next station, I was nervous and scared inside. Early Sundays, there are few people on the subway and platforms, but what if an accident happened? Silently, I prayed to God, asking for our daughter's safety. During this time, I was slightly temperamental towards my wife (not really blaming her, as there was nothing she could've done), but fortunately, we both remained calm. After arriving at the next station, we quickly switched trains to return to Sanlin East Station.

Just as we were approaching the station, my wife received a phone call. Immediately, I guessed it was our daughter calling. Sure enough, it was her. **Turns out, she found a staff member at the service desk who loaned her a phone to call her mom.** What a relief.

I ran over to the service desk and saw from a distance that our daughter's eyes were red. She was probably scared. My wife and I gave her hugs one by one.

It was a frightening experience. We're extremely grateful nothing happened to our daughter. Also thankful this occurred during a quieter time in the early morning (I can't imagine if it were rush hour) and that she managed to find a staff member to borrow a phone, and crucially, she remembered her mom's phone number (even though she dialed incorrectly once). **We had never actually told our children what to do if they got separated from us on the subway (which is why I'm writing this—to share the experience with other parents).** I believe it was God's protection, and I thank God for it.

After our daughter calmed down a bit, we asked her to talk about her thoughts and actions at the time. We also wanted her brother to listen, hoping he could learn something. Finally, as a family, we concluded what to do if we get separated in the subway:

1. **Memorize your parents' phone numbers** (we often have the kids memorize our numbers);
2. If separated, stay where you are or go to the service desk to find a staff member. Initially, this was our conclusion, but later I realized having "two meeting point options" added complexity, so we decided with the kids: **go to the service desk to find a staff member** (or have a staff member take them to the service desk).
3. **Believe that mom and dad will definitely come back for you**.

Lastly, here is a key lesson I took away from this incident:

1. When moving as a family, as the **dad, always stay at the back**. Never leave your kids and walk ahead;
2. Adults and kids should board together;
3. Absolutely avoid boarding the train at the last second.

Parents, take a few minutes and talk to your kids about this topic. It's better to be prepared. Feel free to share it to your social circles so more people can see it (that ad line is well-written...).
