---
title: If Parents Used the Same Rigor on Themselves as on Their Children
date: 2020-09-22 05:02:48+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- parent-child relationship
- child education
translationKey: if-parents-used-the-same-rigor-on-themselves
slug: if-parents-used-the-same-rigor-on-themselves
source_hash: 0ef371c50c33c61b38e1e1a1cb439cb7e88173f72d9673b82d5e56e71885ff40
---

I have two children at home, a ten-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son. As a dad, I’m quite involved in their education and discipline.

With years of hands-on experience, over time, I’ve gained some observations and reflections: **It's really not easy being a child, and as parents, we need to ask ourselves honestly—can I meet the demands I place on my kids?**

The truthful answer: I can’t.

Some of these demands pertain to learning abilities. For instance:

- You've been reciting this ancient poem for so long and still can't remember it?
- Why haven’t you memorized these words yet?
- This simple addition—others understand it right away, why don’t you…
- Play the piano seriously—why can’t you correct your hand posture?

There are also lifestyle demands, such as:

- I’ve told you to spend less time on your phone—why are you always on it?
- Stop being so idle and playing all the time, go read a book…
- Manage your time well: do what you need to do when it’s time to do it…
- Turn off the TV. Come eat now, immediately.
- Stop eating chips. Put them away, immediately.
- After school, run 1000 meters every day before going home…
- Jump rope 1000 times every day…

These demands are exceedingly high.

As adults, can we manage our time well? Can we resist the urge to scroll on our phones? Can you memorize a new Tang poem in ten minutes? When you’re engrossed in a TV show or movie, can you turn off the screen and go eat immediately? I mean *immediately*! With layers of fat around your belly, can you demand of yourself to run 1000 meters every day?

In truth, few of us can achieve this. So as parents, why impose this rigor on our children?

The standard answer is: because we love our children.

I believe parents do have love. But, **besides love, something is missing: respect.** Colossians 3:21 in the Bible says: *Fathers, do not exasperate your children, so they do not become discouraged.*

Why is there no respect? Because we don’t see children as independent individuals, autonomous humans. Subconsciously, we see them as appendages of ourselves. Because they are appendages, parents feel entitled to control them. Can you apply the same strict standards and loud directives on an independent person like you do with a child? For example, a colleague in the workplace. No, you cannot.

Throughout my life, I’ve been someone with average talent and background, always a step slower than others. In fifth grade, I was mocked by my father for not distinguishing between "flavor" and "feed." Such psychological wounds are unforgettable (although I’ve forgiven my dad deep down). Having been hurt, I know what it's like for a child to feel wounded, so I have empathy toward my own children. When my kids are slow, I’m not in a hurry.

Aside from understanding my kids better, I try to do things with them, sharing joys and hardships.

- In the evening, when my kids do their homework, I read or write next to them instead of scrolling on my phone;
- When my kids memorize words, I read and memorize with them;
- When my kids learn badminton, I can book a court in advance and play with my wife instead of sitting around, idly scrolling on my phone and mindlessly waiting for them to finish class;
- When my kids run or bike, I join in and run alongside them;
- Watching movies and eating chips together with my kids, even if I’ve already seen the movie.

These are some efforts I make to participate with my kids, allowing me to better understand the pressures and challenges they face.

In life, I’ve seen parents place overly high demands on their children, then vent their anger on them. I’ve done this to my own kids too.

At such times, we need to ask ourselves: if I apply the same rigor to myself, can I handle it? Can I meet those high expectations myself?

Can you? Then step up! Join your kids in doing things, in learning. This way, you’ll show more respect and understanding toward them.

---

Train up a child in the way he should go,
And when he is old, he will not depart from it. Proverbs 22:6
