---
title: Should Young People Learn About Investing? Musings from a Greenhorn
date: 2020-09-20 09:07:17+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- investment
- us stocks
translationKey: should-young-people-learn-about-investing-musings
slug: should-young-people-learn-about-investing-musings
source_hash: 540f6cf9827147853d2deb094c12e5ab355f515fbf848ef592cf7e1cb77644e9
---

First off, let me clarify: **Currently, I am a budding novice.** To put it modestly, even beginners can share some thoughts on finance and investment, right?

In 2007, I had just been in the workforce for two years. There was a time when two programmer friends, with whom I was quite close, were discussing the funds they had bought, and I was there listening. Not long after, they seemed to reach a unanimous conclusion: funds are risky, and you can easily lose a lot. I listened on and planted a seed—the idea that funds are not to be touched.

From then on, I held a respectful distance from all financial products, never engaging in any financial operations, not even simple fixed deposits. On one hand, I thought my salary wasn’t enough to warrant financial management (the returns on fixed deposits are pitiful). On the other hand, I viewed “buying funds and trading stocks” as not just high-risk, but also as activities that were not a proper career focus, and thus I stayed away from them. I thought my time and energy would be better spent on design and work.

Looking back, I can’t say my past thoughts and actions were absolutely right or wrong. However, if I could go back to 2007 with what I know now, I would handle financial management differently.

Firstly, as a young person just starting out in their career with nothing to their name, focusing time and energy on enhancing professional skills and work capabilities is absolutely the right strategy and choice. For example, in 2005, my first job’s monthly salary was 3,500 (in Changsha), and by 2015 (in Shanghai), roughly speaking, it had increased more than tenfold. Am I great? Not necessarily. My salary level is moderately average in the industry. But what I want to convey is that young professionals have low starting points and salaries (low prices), but enormous potential for future growth and value enhancement. Therefore, for most people, as long as you explore, determine a career path, and work diligently, the investment return rate in the first ten years of your career should be very high.

What about the next ten years, or even longer? That's the other aspect I want to discuss.

Realistically, most people's salary increases tend to plateau. Take designers, for example, in major cities, once a senior designer's monthly salary exceeds 40,000 (not including stock/options), annual salary increments become minimal. Besides, not many designers even reach a 40,000 salary. So, how to break through this? It's a big question that confuses me too. However, based on my experiences over the past year, **if I could tell my 2007 self something, I would say: go learn and practice financial management.** This might be a new path that, after ten working years, leads you to a bright new village.

Starting in 2007, I made two mistakes in financial management: one, I just heard my friends’ discussions and, without truly understanding or practicing, made a gut decision: don't touch funds. Two, I thought my salary wasn’t significant enough to need financial management.

Over more than a decade, friends I trust have gradually updated my concepts of investment and financial management.

In life, there are many aspects to manage: time, health, education, career, relationships, finances...etc. Management of these aspects should be dynamically balanced. That means you can focus on a certain area at some stages, but you shouldn’t completely ignore any aspect. Financial management, of course, cannot be neglected. Regardless of whether you are young and single or you’ve started a family, whether you have a million in assets or you only earn a thousand each month.

When it comes to investing, I'm a novice. Currently, I am learning and understanding knowledge related to value investing. The book I'm reading now is "Civilization/Modernization/Value Investing and China."

Even though I am a designer, I find joy, motivation, and willingness to learn from value investing. It truly is fortunate. Just starting out, the road is long and far.

More later.

---

> The love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people, eager for money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs.
> 1 Timothy 6:10
