---
title: Things to Know Before Starting a Design Studio
date: 2020-09-16 02:13:28+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- translation
- design
translationKey: things-to-know-before-starting-a-design-studio
slug: things-to-know-before-starting-a-design-studio
source_hash: cfcc369756249ee1c37239d0caadee93f20c2a7e69e9c98212d209334b3114e3
---

This is an article I translated.

**Almost all designers who truly love design have dreams or ideas of starting a design studio.** Last year, [when I was preparing to start a design studio](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzAxNjgyODc4OA==&mid=2651665383&idx=1&sn=ce0c46b8071d89819479b01136befa89&chksm=801743fcb760caeabfa7eabb35d458fc72032944c63222fbf84b75a888c37bc5ccdd07a8a214&scene=21#wechat_redirect), I searched online for the experiences shared by pioneers. One article, **So, You’re Starting a Design Studio?**, provided concise advice on motivation, practicality, and considerations. Some tips might even make designers smile, such as don't worry too much about the studio website initially. (I guess many designers start by designing business cards and websites?)

The author of the article is Eric Karjaluoto, who started the design studio smashLAB with his friend 20 years ago. With Eric's permission, I translated the article into Chinese and shared some of my thoughts under each of Eric's suggestions. I hope this can be helpful for anyone dreaming of starting their own design work. My translation may be clumsy, so designers proficient in English are advised to read the original: [So, You’re Starting a Design Studio?](http://www.erickarjaluoto.com/blog/so-youre-starting-a-design-studio/)

---

### **So, You’re Starting a Design Studio?**

So, You’re Starting a Design Studio? – Eric Karjaluoto

One day, someone from a new design studio asked me for advice. I shared some ideas, explaining what worked and what didn't over the 17 years of running smashLAB. Later, I realized this information might be useful to others as well. So, I distilled the key points from our conversation and wrote this blog post. Here are some tips for when you start a design company. Of course, opinions vary, but these are the best tips I can offer:

### **01. Determine What Kind of Person You Want to Be**

A design agency and a design studio may look similar but are actually quite different. Before choosing between the two, ask yourself how you want to spend your day. **A design agency will require you to focus on sales and management. If you prefer hands-on design work, a studio might be more suitable.** You might also want to develop your own products. These are all worthwhile pursuits. Overall, it's important to choose a path that suits your personality and not make decisions you'll regret.

> Diff Reflection: Personally, I lean towards a studio model because I enjoy hands-on design. It's fun.

### **02. Accumulate Some Cash Flow (Open Source)**

Start with a stable gig. **One of the simplest ways is to become a part-time designer for someone** (see my article: **[How We Fixed Our Studio’s Cash-Flow Problem – Eric Karjaluoto](http://www.erickarjaluoto.com/blog/how-we-fixed-our-studios-cash-flow-problem/)**). Doing this is relatively stress-free. In fact, if you're leaving a full-time job, you might consider proposing part-time design services to that company. Transitioning this way will be easier. Once you have an income, it’ll ease your mind, and your studio will be more stable.

> Diff Reflection: Be rational; don't quit impulsively. If you want to start a design studio in the future, begin now by accumulating capital, resources, and networking with people in different industries. Don't just stay home designing all the time.

### **03. Keep Overheads Low (Thrift)**

The simplest way to reduce financial pressure isn't to earn more but to spend less. **Don’t rent an office—it's expensive and unnecessary.** Working from home saves you rent, commuting, and furniture costs. More importantly, unless absolutely necessary, do not hire staff. You'll find that salary expenses can bankrupt you faster than expected. Instead, find the right people to partner and collaborate with. This approach is more fun, manageable, and flexible for you.

> Diff Reflection: Maybe your first company/design studio is just for fun, a sense of identity, or novelty. But be pragmatic. Saving is not a bad thing. Moreover, if your studio's location and decor aren't great, there's no need to mention it to clients.

### **04. Buy Good Tools (Buy Once)**

When you start a design business, you don’t need much. That said, **the real essentials are few** (like a chair, computer, desk). For some items, like a desk, you can buy something cheap. However, for certain things, I suggest spending more. A basic Aeron chair is great for long work hours and has good resale value. Similarly, a good laptop lets you work from anywhere. These items needn't be top-grade, but I bet you won't regret getting quality tools that satisfy.

> Diff Reflection: Aeron chairs come highly recommended. I bought one after starting freelancing from home, [here's a simple review](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzAxNjgyODc4OA==&mid=2651665617&idx=1&sn=f2ce1553ea2a9036cedd41d946ebc75b&chksm=801744cab760cddce154b02a38539ac2e59c765477148469480ba76992ccff65013662be702a&scene=21#wechat_redirect). Buy less but invest in quality; if the price stings a bit, it's probably right.

### **05. Be Practical About Business, Avoid Lofty Talk**

A design studio isn't an assembly line operation. Therefore, methods applied in one project may not suit another. In our early studio days, someone advised, "focus on business expansion, not just current design tasks." This suggested we should create a set process and standard system so we could eventually hand off design tasks to others. Following that advice made us do things prematurely. Systems are good, **but for a small design studio, focus on doing good design work and maintaining a steady cash flow, rather than thinking about turning your studio into a franchise.**

> Diff Reflection: I don’t fully agree with this point. I believe in being both practical and keeping an eye on development directions and industry trends. As the saying goes: Keep your head down to pull the cart, but also look up to see the road.

### **05. Don’t Obsess Over Your Website**

Designers tend to overestimate their website's value and get obsessed with improving its weaknesses. However, **most clients don’t notice or care about fine details.** A simple webpage with some information about your studio and service logos is enough.

> Diff Reflection: This really hit home. What designer doesn’t first think of setting up a studio website? Actually, it hardly gets any traffic. Also, what old-school internet entrepreneur doesn't start by buying a domain name? Of course, for many, there is no "then"... The website isn't important; traffic is.

### **06. Bypass All Self-Promotion**

Self-promotion seems useful for running a studio, but it can be overdone. It's a common trap that pits your ego against yourself. If you like writing, go ahead and write; if you want to meet great people, speak at some conferences—but don’t treat both as a means to keep your studio healthy. Plus, the return from design awards is minimal, given the time cost and entry fees. I suggest avoiding self-promotion methods like these altogether. I'm sure there are better ways to attract new business.

> Diff Reflection: I don’t entirely agree with this either. For a studio, with few people and limited energy, you indeed need to gauge the output against input.

### **07. Have Lunch**

This is perhaps the best business advice I can share: **socialize.** Having lunch together is a great way to maintain contact and strengthen friendships. For us, just sitting down with past or potentiel clients over burgers and fries occasionally leads to more collaboration opportunities (and often very good ones).

> Diff Reflection: I once attended an exchange at the Chi Mu Design Studio in Shanghai, where the owner Victor admitted he deliberately attends non-design industry events monthly to meet new friends and exchange over meals. The reality is, most designers are introverted. If you ever strike out independently, you'll have to break through in this area.

### **08. Focus on Client Results, Not Just Your Work**

Every time you get distracted, your work becomes harder. In smashLAB's early days, I wanted us to: create great designs that please our clients; maintain good financial health; push media creatively; and win design awards. Although all these might be achieved, these expectations and efforts overlap and conflict. So I urge you **to focus on keeping your clients happy.** If you can do that, you'll fare well, and everything else will naturally fall into place.

> Diff Reflection: What designer doesn’t want to produce great work? But alas, oftentimes, too much attention is paid to the work itself. Making clients successful and satisfied is truly a practical and incisive suggestion.

### **09. Do a Side Project**

Pleasing clients sometimes means making changes and compromises in design, which might leave you dissatisfied with your own work. In the worst case, you might not even want to showcase it because it's utterly clumsy and awful. **Having a completely autonomous personal project or side gig can mitigate the discomfort from design work due to client satisfaction.** Whether it’s an app, a resource library, or anything else, choose a side project and schedule specific time for it to fully enjoy.

> Diff Reflection: I completely agree. When managing a design team, I recommend this to the designers. Outside of commercial design, you need a place to fully unleash your creativity. [Here’s my approach.](http://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzAxNjgyODc4OA==&mid=2651665536&idx=1&sn=593153d8ba87e2319c1f2b76ae771e70&chksm=8017449bb760cd8da4fd352e45e6ac0b4b9ffd61cbeb1b3d3da498762b91cf49e3d13c1dfc17&scene=21#wechat_redirect)

### **10. Be Easy to Hire**

I have a friend who is brilliant and capable, yet he can't find steady design work. My intuition is that no one hires him because he makes the hiring and collaboration process too difficult. He often complains about client HR software and questions the legality of client interests. Don’t be like that. **Make it easier for clients to try your design and services, let them see how you work, and make them feel comfortable about it.** If you don't know how to do this yet, I recommend reading this article: **[How We Fixed Our Studio’s Cash-Flow Problem – Eric Karjaluoto](http://www.erickarjaluoto.com/blog/how-we-fixed-our-studios-cash-flow-problem/)**

> Diff Reflection: Be humble, be easy to communicate with, and of course, have principles, boundaries, and tactics. Designers, by and large, are too proud.

### **11. Enjoy the Process**

I'm always in a rush, which means I've missed some good times. Recently, I've found ways to spend time and gain more enjoyment. **Running a design studio requires time and effort, but it doesn't need to be a stressful race.** Instead, by planning, organizing, and arranging your design career, it can help you live the life you want.
Honestly, the above list is still incomplete. I'll add more as I develop new thoughts. Feel free to ask if you have related questions; I'm happy to answer.

> Diff Reflection: When I first started freelancing, although there was no great pressure, I was still tense, even anxious. This emotion wasn't due to reduced income compared to full-time work but because I was living a "non-normal" lifestyle, worried that I was disconnecting from the industry trends. It's getting better now, and I feel somewhat enjoying it. :)

---

Thanks to Eric Karjaluoto for the article~ On his [personal website](http://www.erickarjaluoto.com), there’s a "[Now](http://www.erickarjaluoto.com/now)" and "[Don’t Do](http://www.erickarjaluoto.com/dont)" list, full of attitude and interesting. Check it out.
