---
title: Joining the Church Prayer Meeting
date: 2025-07-31 15:25:27+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
translationKey: joining-the-church-prayer-meeting
slug: joining-the-church-prayer-meeting
source_hash: b173a0f5dcee78a4d0706203979a48160859e452526169dcc3b01f1ad473c468
---

After returning from China, I wanted to make changes in my spiritual life, and I resolved to "have the mind of Christ."

When I saw the notice for the Wednesday church prayer meeting, my initial reaction was the same as in the past: I won't go; I don't want to attend for several reasons. First, I still don't feel a sense of belonging in the church (I've been a member for almost a year). Second, the distance is considerable, 14 miles, a 30-minute drive. Third, I have work to do in the evenings.

But if I really want to make changes, I must sincerely make decisions and take actions different from before. Otherwise, how could it be called change?

So, I gritted my teeth and went to the prayer meeting.

Sitting outside with fellow brothers and sisters, praying together in a church that has yet to be fully renovated, is truly a blessed experience. The so-called "sense of belonging" is not a result but a process.

There have been other changes in my life over the past couple of days.

I deleted social media and entertainment apps like Instagram, Twitter, Xiaohongshu, Facebook from my phone, and disabled the WeChat Moments feature. Time and again, I've realized that scrolling through these apps is a pointless endeavor. It's not my first time deleting or closing these apps or features. I suppose I might reinstall them again when I feel "weak-willed." However, unlike in the past, I don't feel ashamed or guilty about this seemingly "never-ending cycle of defeats." Because I am inherently weak, I can only take life's challenges one day at a time.

I've begun to wake up early. I truly enjoy the quiet time at 5 a.m., reading a devotional piece, and doing some meditation. Currently, I'm reading "The Eternal Word" on WeDevotion. In the evening, I read this content again with my family.

Around six o'clock, I take a walk in the community and walk the dog. Since coming back to Dallas, I haven't felt well, with chest tightness, dry eyes, and a runny nose every morning. Initially, I thought it was due to the fragrances and spices at home, but after clearing them out, the symptoms persisted. Only this morning did I realize it was allergies (similar to spring pollen allergies, just milder). Reflecting on past experiences, I remembered that exercising after waking up in the morning helped alleviate allergies. I tried it this morning, and indeed, after exercising and returning indoors, my nose stopped running as much.

Lord, help me. I am very prone to falling into legalism. When I'm able to take action and make changes, I often feel proud and at peace because I "did a spiritual activity" today. Conversely, when I am weak, lazy, or simply too busy to spend quiet time before the Lord, I deeply blame myself, feel anxious, and defeated. Lord, help me to enjoy true freedom in You.
