---
title: Starting Craftwork
date: 2010-02-04 05:35:24+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- craft
translationKey: starting-craftwork
slug: starting-craftwork
source_hash: 81a67426ffde0dcb6db2a109a1dbafe1f0106fb2aeb8060f673ff3cb9763ca14
---

I have always had a fondness for crafting.
As a child, I was quite adept at making things by hand and earned a reputation as a "king of destruction."
In high school, I crafted handmade cards for the girl I liked;
during university design courses, much of my work was completed by hand.
Haha, actually, every artist's work could be considered "craftwork."
Crafting might just be my path.
I plan to start by making some small notebooks. The tools and materials are ready, just waiting to get started.
I'm also thinking about opening a Taobao shop for fun.
Suddenly, I have a lot of ideas. Of course, I'm someone with ideas but also someone who struggles with persistence and focus.
Therefore, I am fully aware that given my current character and habits, achieving something substantial is difficult, and perhaps after a few days, I'll forget what I initially wanted to do. So, I plan to adjust and change some of my current habits to train my willpower.
The changes I need to make in February are:
1. Get up early and exercise (go for a run unless it rains);
2. Arrive at work before 8:40 and have my spiritual reflections before starting work.
3. Focus at work, avoid distractions, and resist browsing websites aimlessly;
4. Do some light exercises before bed at night.
Although these points seem few, being able to commit and stick to them is very challenging for me.
Persevere.
