---
title: It Begins
date: 2012-03-11 15:40:40+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- entrepreneurship
- hangzhou
translationKey: it-begins
slug: it-begins
source_hash: 30703dbfc8a25e80dc1d0b74da741d7340dd43c3899517569a1b80713d830b72
---

If you have enough temperament, openness, and adventurous spirit to accept such a contract, then my first startup, for the team, for myself personally, now has an investor who can be considered an exceptionally great mentor. From our conversations, I have gained very valuable entrepreneurial experience, such as the insights he shared tonight:

- A good idea is important, but only a good team with execution can win. Even a poor model can "move a freighter to the top of the Himalayas" if there's a good team.
- Entrepreneurship is never smooth; when difficulties arise, the team needs to persevere.
- Forming cliques is a high-pressure line.
- Trust, openness, focus
- The speed and iteration of the product; early on, to quickly launch the product, you can "use any means necessary" (human resources, tech solutions, etc.).
- View companions with a developmental perspective. Today's junior editor might be tomorrow's vice president; vision, attitude, and passion are more important than experience.

I've often read and heard these words before, but different people saying them brings different impacts.

Additionally, what I really need to improve is expression, communication skills, and techniques.

Life has become challenging, and I need to start working hard from tomorrow.

I must rely on God, rely on prayer.
