---
title: Opening Up
date: 2024-12-11 22:25:01+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- courage
- north-america-adventures
- christian-faith
translationKey: opening-up
slug: opening-up
source_hash: d5f4ff40f5fc0a2e8897f324c3b9ffb60b0e696f79effa32825710975dfe05b0
---

I'm a somewhat introverted person.

A few years ago, I had a conversation with an English tutor from London.

"You Westerners place great emphasis on privacy; it must be difficult to engage in deep conversations, right?"

"That's a misconception. Actually, how deep you can get in conversation with others doesn't depend on them, but on how much you're willing to open up yourself."

I was surprised by this response.

In the past, I would share my list of things I'm grateful for each year on WeChat Public Account and Blog, which was also a form of annual summary. This year is a bit different. Besides the usual record and sharing, I prepared a well-designed booklet of images and text for some close friends. Through this more personal and intimate booklet, I hope to share my year's experiences with church brothers and sisters, family, and friends, and to bear witness to God's grace for me and my family. I also hope to maintain deeper connections and communications with old friends, especially those in China.

After sending this booklet to friends (perhaps forty to fifty people), I received various feedback. Some friends sent thanks and blessings; some immediately borrowed my format and quickly shared their yearly summaries with me; others mentioned they'd borrow this format to share with their own friends; and some church brothers and sisters sent me their gratitude items for 2024 and prayer requests. Of course, there were also friends who didn't respond at all.

Not receiving feedback from certain friends does make me a bit disappointed, but I'm still grateful to God for giving me the opportunity and ability to do this. Sharing this booklet is one way I open up. Besides close friends, I also intentionally shared the booklet with some not-so-close ones. When I decided to share it with these friends, it meant that I was opening up (I want to know you better), it's up to you. There's really no cost, just the necessary mental preparation on my part.

I think this is also my way of practicing "love your neighbor as yourself."
