---
title: Give Thanks to God
date: 2011-10-26 04:59:32+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- entrepreneurship
- gratitude
translationKey: give-thanks-to-god
slug: give-thanks-to-god
source_hash: 9aaf8b10af7e71d36fa450b99a903e23b97bc8daa41149663f698a251f600fe0
---

Yesterday's presentation to the investors went very smoothly, and they expressed "98%" satisfaction. I was, of course, very pleased.

On the way back, still feeling a bit excited, a thought flashed through my mind: Should I be thanking God for this?

I did pray about this matter a couple of days ago. As I traveled, I began a dialogue with myself.

All along, I've been someone who prays beforehand but finds it difficult to give thanks to God after things are accomplished, sometimes even denying God’s actions.

Of course, without my thanks, God is still God. If it wasn't God's work, then why did I pray in the first place? Was it just to comfort and encourage myself?

I believe the world was created by God, who made me unique and loves me (although my understanding is still largely theoretical). In my daily work, whether I do well or poorly, I trust that God provides for me, assures my safety, and gives me peace.

So, there's no need for me to worry about outcomes. Success or failure, I just need to do my best.

God wants us to enjoy life and manage the world, as taught in the Bible. Now that things are progressing well, should I deny God’s work and think that the good results are purely my own doing, or just a coincidence?

In the past, I certainly did this, repeatedly denying it.

God indeed doesn't need my thanks, but I am His child. A very powerful father tells his son, "Go ahead and do it without worry; no matter the outcome, I am your assurance." The son freely exerts his ability, and when things progress, even if he doesn’t thank his father, the father wouldn't mind. But if the son expresses gratitude, the father would be very happy, surely feeling a sense of achievement.

At least now, having a daughter myself, I understand how wonderful it feels to hear a "thank you" from her.

Moreover, I acknowledge that all inspiration comes from God.

So, I thank God and am very willing to experience more of His grace.
