---
title: Thoughts Behind the Busyness
date: 2023-02-07 00:01:15+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- north-american-drift
translationKey: thoughts-behind-the-busyness
slug: thoughts-behind-the-busyness
source_hash: 73837ba8476234faddbda934aa222418bf324f450219f5f18d8c6b46bbf8ef53
---

Upon coming to the United States, life didn't slow down or become more relaxed as I had anticipated. Instead, it's been as hectic as in Shanghai, with one task following another. Moreover, these tasks are all urgent and unavoidable, like filing taxes, car maintenance, and updating addresses.

When can I actually take a break? I long to get past these urgent and important matters to enjoy some leisurely, carefree days. Soon, I realized such expectations were unrealistic. It seems my life will remain busy, whether actively or passively. I might as well not anticipate reaching a new state of relaxation after completing a mound of tasks.

If constant busyness is the reality, what's the proper attitude to face it?

Firstly, find enjoyment in everyday, trivial tasks. For example, treat each conversation with various customer service reps as an opportunity to practice speaking skills. Or consider, while spending time resetting an ancient irrigation system, understanding the challenges and creativity in designing interactions under constraints.

Secondly, recognize the parts for which I can be grateful to God. For instance, in the daily routine of caring for my son's bath and applying moisturizers to alleviate his eczema, I'm thankful for God's protection and guidance in providing doctors, diagnoses, and medication. I'm also grateful that after two weeks of intervention, his eczema has improved.

Perhaps living life this way can be a bit more interesting and meaningful?
