---
title: What Does God Remember?
date: 2021-01-21 00:39:02+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- devotionals
translationKey: what-does-god-remember
slug: what-does-god-remember
source_hash: 46fce3da74c819473ade576d1cb57089ba004bb8b182e2d65053c684c92da07f
---

Jan 21, 2021 at 6:11 AM

Go and proclaim in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, thus says the Lord: I remember your youthful devotion, the love of your betrothals, how you followed me in the wilderness, in a land not sown. (Jeremiah 2:2 NKJV)

Go and tell the people of Jerusalem, the Lord says, I remember your youthful passion for me, the love you had as a bride, following me through the desert, through a land not sown. (Jeremiah 2:2 Contemporary Bible Revised Edition)

The NKJV's "your youthful devotion, the love of your betrothals" is not as direct as the English and contemporary translations, which are clearer. I was deeply moved while reading the Bible. All those fleeting, seemingly insignificant moments of faith that I had in response to God, He remembers. Even if, with time, I've grown hazy and forgetful about them.

I recently finished reading Genesis and am now reading Exodus. With a "critical" human perspective, I questioned, "When Israel was young, were they truly passionate about God? Did they truly love Him like a bride loves a groom?" From Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Moses, they all had various issues and weaknesses. Not to mention, the complaints, bitterness, and disbelief of the Israelites in the desert after the Exodus.

What's strange is that when God recalls His relationship with them, He doesn't seem to remember these weaknesses brought about by human limitations. Instead, He recalls their few moments of dependence and faith in Him. I think it's because, despite their struggles, weaknesses, and complaints, the Israelites still worshiped and trusted God. Simply put, they hadn't abandoned God. (However, after Jeremiah 2:4, God severely lists Israel's sins of abandoning Him and worshiping idols.)

Brother Chambers said, "If your heart forgets what God considers precious, you won't have joy." That's how it is. Psalm 16, verse 2: "I said to the Lord, 'You are my Lord; apart from you I have no good thing.'" Verse 4: "Those who run after other gods will suffer more and more."

I must not forget what God considers precious and must do what He considers precious to please Him. Otherwise, it would be idolatry.

Gratitude:

1. Thank the Lord for His guidance. Recently, the family atmosphere has become more relaxed, especially during the hours before and after school. Indeed, compared to before, I am more involved. Now, I start tutoring my son Anran on his homework around 6:30 PM. However, I believe this is God's guidance. Although people do the tasks, the change in mindset to start doing something and doing it willingly is the work of the Holy Spirit within me.
2. Communication with my daughter has become more frequent, deeper, more natural, and pleasant than before.
3. Thank God for His word. God's word is my strength and reliance.
