---
title: Imagination
date: 2010-02-02 12:31:57+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- imagination
- thoughts
translationKey: imagination
slug: imagination
source_hash: 4c66f0c67a3d94edc761af7aea434f807fb99e1c54175176104bede4d87176ea
---

Days seem to repeat, day after day.
If life is just simple repetition, it must be empty and meaningless.

I strive to discover the unique elements in my everyday life, doing my best to live today unlike any day before.

I'll have lunch a bit earlier or later. I might randomly choose a path to walk, pausing to gaze at the yellow leaves falling from a tree, contrasting with the gray wall behind it. Passing by a luxury hotel, I glimpse a woman elegantly enjoying her meal behind dark, square windows, but I don't envy her. I gradually understand that external satisfaction from food is merely transient.

This morning, I got up, instinctively opened the window, stretched outside, and took a deep breath. The morning air is indeed delightful. Looking at the houses and trees across from me, I try to find something novel in these everyday sights. Sure enough, the arrangement of windows on the apartment building in front is quite interesting today—I even feel like sketching them. Down at the three-way intersection, a few cars—blue, yellow, and gray—are parked like three pet dogs. Though I don't care much for dogs, I find them endearingly honest, and I even feel like sketching them. Why not draw them? I really went inside, picked up my notebook, and started drawing, though not very well.

Today is a special day. But it still feels like something's missing.

I suddenly realized my life and my perspective on life lack something called imagination. Indeed.

I plan to see everything tomorrow with a touch more imagination.

Even though I see just a tree, with a bit of imagination, it could be anything. That way, life should be quite interesting, and my creations would surely be interesting too.
