---
title: Thanksgiving 2025
date: 2026-04-17 15:44:05+00:00
draft: false
tags: []
translationKey: thanksgiving-2025
slug: thanksgiving-2025
source_hash: 28d9f40f63cc5a75fc216e7dab39fe0fcfe45f6011864760f95939bce4fc4268
---

This is an annual review that's almost four months late. Better late than never. The initial content was prepared before Thanksgiving 2025, but it was never organized. I originally planned to release it on New Year's Day 2026, but that was postponed. Then, I aimed to publish it during the Chinese Lunar New Year, but that failed too. Finally, after two more months of delay, here we are.

1. Thank you, God, for loving and saving me. I'm grateful for God's grace, mercy, slow anger, and patience. Thank you for not giving up on someone as rebellious and worldly as me. God granted me many blessings in 2025, yet I remain rebellious and weak. I love Him but don't draw near to Him.
2. Thank God for His protection, keeping us within our church and community of brothers and sisters. I appreciate how God uses those around us to help and care for us.
3. Thanks to God for using Brother Wang Wei to guide us through marital challenges. I'm grateful for Brother Wang's enthusiasm, using God-given love to support us and helping us learn how to handle our marriage and treat our children better.
4. I'm thankful that my son's eczema improved greatly. In July on Jeju Island, his eczema flared up due to the humidity in the room. At the time, I broke down and cried out in prayer before God, which was an unforgettable experience.
5. Thank God for giving us the opportunity to take our parents and mother-in-law on a trip during the summer, allowing family to gather and enjoy each other's company.
6. I'm grateful for the chance to meet up with XF, Brother HH, and Sister in Singapore, and for their warm hospitality. Seeing old friends lead peaceful and happy lives fills my heart with gratitude for God's provisions.
7. Thank God for guiding coworkers and fellow church members from my old church to share the gospel with my parents. Several brothers and sisters, whom my parents had just met, came to our home to converse and share during the scorching heat of July. I'm thankful for their dedication.
8. Thank God for keeping Eather healthy and thriving. At the age of 40, God blessed me with a lovely daughter, bringing much joy and comfort to my life.
9. I'm grateful for God's provision, allowing us many opportunities to row, fish, and camp this year. I'm in awe of the stunning creation's beauty. Every time I see the sunrise and the unique clouds in Dallas, Texas, I can't help but want to sing "How Great Thou Art."
10. Thank you to Teacher Han and Mrs. Han from the TMS group for their support. While it's said that we support and help them, they've actually provided more reminders, help, and comfort to us.
11. I'm thankful to my brother for accompanying me fishing during the summer. Though we don't communicate much, fishing may be a form of silent conversation and a rare shared hobby.
12. Thank you to my father for his diligent assistance with managing relocation compensation and other follow-ups.
13. Thank God for moving us through Pastor Travis's sermons while listening to the Story Church podcast.
14. I'm grateful for God's protection over my health. Though I experienced pollen allergies in March, I recovered later. As the year ended, I realized the importance of taking care of my body and began maintaining some exercise recently.
15. I'm thankful that God provides for our family needs. When doing the accounts, I noticed that our situation in recent years has improved compared to before. Though the economy is tough, remembering how "Our clothes did not wear out, and our shoes did not wear out in the wilderness for forty years" reminds me of God's grace.
16. Thank God for my wife and children who accept and tolerate me. I'm not an easy person to get along with, often misunderstanding others and losing my temper. I'm grateful for their acceptance and patience.
17. Thank you to my work's PM team. I thank God for this ministry and job, which allows me to engage with the latest developments within the team. I'm grateful for everyone's acceptance and patience.
18. I'm thankful for the chance to see old family and friends in Shanghai over the summer, especially gaining a better understanding of Brother An's family.
19. Thank you to Sister Zhang from Trinity Church for her many good testimonies. She often shows concern for our family, bringing us gifts, and actively participates in missionary work, providing great testimonies and sharing.
20. Thank God for my wife. I'm grateful for her silent care for the family over the past year, doing many unnoticed, seemingly unimportant, yet necessary tasks. She allows each of us to enjoy her service. May the Lord help us to have a willing heart to serve.
