---
title: How Do Angry Youth Survive?
date: 2020-08-18 11:42:15+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- angry-youth-constitution
translationKey: how-do-angry-youth-survive
slug: how-do-angry-youth-survive
source_hash: c0e426103e4fdd5a5fa98a198cac64a020cbf0e86bc9c6362108cd30e959f193
---

In 2002, during my sophomore year in college, I began following domestic and international current affairs and politics through the internet. At that time, the Chinese internet was open and free, allowing access to a wide range of perspectives and viewpoints.

I believe that at that time, the impact of information on people was balanced because diverse voices were presented relatively equally. An individual, an adult willing to explore various types of information, could make some independent judgments that weren't overly influenced by others.

I don’t consider myself a loving person. However, after living in a place for a long time, you inevitably develop feelings, hoping that place will improve. Especially upon knowing that other places offer more freedom, are more advanced, more respectful of human dignity and individuality, I fervently wish for this land to become better, at least in the direction of improvement.

But, things didn't go as hoped. It's not just one or two incidents, but a continuous stream of disappointments. From dissatisfaction to disappointment to anger. For me, this anger has been accumulating for nearly 20 years. Many years ago, people like me were labeled as "angry youth."

Being internally overwhelmed by disappointment and anger from the environment is extremely painful. No one wants this pain. Gradually, I discovered a way to ease my survival: ignoring the outside world and pretending to be numb. Indeed, it feels much better.

However, on this land, once stained with blood and still being stained, even if you don’t actively seek out negative, unfair, or illegal news, such news will occasionally pop up in front of you, giving "pretend numb" no chance to survive. In fact, the negativity you can see is also filtered; or it's something that simply can't be covered up, like the COVID-19 virus.

I've considered emigrating to completely leave this "sorrowful place." But then I think, after moving to another country and changing citizenship, would I really be indifferent to where I grew up? Probably, it would be difficult not to care. Perhaps one day, I will actually leave.

Compared to the past, the air has become thinner, and it's increasingly hard to breathe freely in recent years. Every now and then, I feel as if I'm cyclically ill. Recently, over the past one or two weeks, the old affliction has returned. Last night, it peaked.

After a good night's sleep (one of my ways to adjust), I felt slightly better in the morning and sang a few hymns alone, which further calmed me. I realized that my "passion," my anger, is rather abstract and elusive, lacking tangible and real subjects: people. Maybe I should start from loving the friends and neighbors around me.

I suddenly also realized how imperfect the real world is (in both Eastern and Western countries). Without an eternal, perfect kingdom, this world is truly ridiculous and absurd. The Christian faith is indeed very important.
