---
title: I'm Injured, But...
date: 2008-06-14 19:32:53+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- thoughts
translationKey: im-injured-but
slug: im-injured-but
source_hash: be140ecbb9f81691791322be316eeb4054986e8dfbb63e5565c9da48dcb46201
---

This time, it's my third time boxing.

Last time, my left chest was still slightly aching, and today I've been hit in the same spot again. It made it difficult to breathe, and I sat down in pain. My back head was also hit, I have a small bruise on my left forearm, and my right forearm has scrapes and lumps. Due to a frontal attack, my lower lip got bumped against my teeth, causing a small bruise.

Despite getting injured, at least now I can stare straight at my opponent's moves when they attack, instead of dodging as I did the first two times. In this regard, I have outperformed my muscular opponent.

Even though I've only boxed three times, I've gathered the following insights:

1. Keep your body relaxed, even after getting injured.
2. Focus on your opponent's moves and concentrate; but don't just analyze with your mind, think while attacking.
3. Don't always focus on your opponent's two fists and defense area. In fact, there are many flaws and attack points. (As for me, I've realized that over the years, I've been too pessimistic in many things, seeing only the difficulties and overlooking the opportunities.)
4. Keep moving; staying still makes you an easy target.
5. If your fists can't reach the opponent, it's not because your arms aren't long enough, but because you're not close enough to them.
6. Speed and endurance. Both of these need to be built up through daily practice.
