---
title: My Obedience to God May Harm Others' Interests
date: 2021-01-10 22:49:56+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- spiritual-notes
translationKey: my-obedience-to-god-may-harm-others-interests
slug: my-obedience-to-god-may-harm-others-interests
source_hash: 0fe419709c96080efdadf04a923ca2eae6442cc658f636b9553fdc509fa164ec
---

Jan 11, 2021 at 6:10 AM

As they led Jesus away, they seized Simon from Cyrene, who was on his way in from the country, and put the cross on him and made him carry it behind Jesus. (Luke 23:26)

Recently, our family has faced a difficult decision. Last night, we had a discussion about it (with our children also participating).

Obeying God sometimes means harming others' interests. For example, following Jesus against the opposition of family might damage familial relationships (often with the threat of severing family ties); or, being honest and transparent about taxes might increase the company's costs.

Our discussion last night didn’t reach a conclusion. In the end, we found ourselves in a state of indecision, looking around and unable to choose a direction. After reading Brother Chambers’ share today, I realized the reason for our indecision was because we were only calculating our family’s gains and losses (with our children involved in this calculation), without considering God’s will (obeying God) or the loss others might bear (possibly emotional hurt).

Brother Chambers reminded me at the end of today’s message, "Be careful of the idea of obeying God but mandating God to act according to your wishes."

So, before making this decision, our family needs to consider two things:

1. What is God’s will in this matter? The two choices don’t seem drastically different now, but long-term, they could lead in different directions. Only by knowing God’s will in this matter, and perhaps understanding the Biblical standard, can we correctly obey.
2. Are we ready to simply obey, prepared to bear the cost and leave all consequences to God?

I’m thankful for:

1. The night before last (January 9th), Linda was upset because I couldn't agree to something small, and she said, "I hate Daddy" and "other families are better." I was hurt. I’m thankful that, during various times when I communicated with her, the Holy Spirit reminded me not to say complaining, meaningless, or hurtful things like "If other families are better, go to them." Thankful for the Holy Spirit’s guidance, which allowed me to hold back and try to communicate from the child’s perspective and feelings. (The "Holy Spirit’s reminder" I experienced is not an audible voice, but an inner reminder.)
2. Sunday’s sermon reminded me that a Christian’s life means living each day set apart from the world, united with Christ, living a godly life, and continually becoming holy.
3. The evening family discussion (together with the kids) about these matters;
