---
title: Is My Sacrifice Living?
date: 2021-01-07 23:12:12+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- devotional-notes
translationKey: is-my-sacrifice-living
slug: is-my-sacrifice-living
source_hash: defb8c8bc55b44338a98bd17cdbdcdccf3c2ce532aefe9a46841c5b8487d18b5
---

Jan 8, 2021 at 6:06 AM

They arrived at the place God had told him about. Abraham built an altar there and arranged the wood on it. He bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. (Genesis 22:9)

Although it initially seems that Chambers says, "This event (Abraham offering Isaac) reflects our mistaken belief that God ultimately requires a dead sacrifice from us," I believe Abraham's understanding of God's request was not mistaken. God asked him to offer Isaac as a burnt offering, and he followed through completely.

Though the offering was his son Isaac, for Abraham, it was truly an offering of his own life, as Isaac was his only son, the one who would fulfill God's promise to Abraham.

God was pleased with and accepted Abraham's faith in "offering his life" and provided a ram to take Isaac's place as the sacrifice.

However, the corruption of the human heart has turned things into merely an act of sacrifice and offering objects, rather than the mindset of "offering life" that pleases God. Psalm 51:16-17 says, "You do not delight in sacrifice, or I would bring it; you do not take pleasure in burnt offerings. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise."

Romans 12:1 Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God—this is your true and proper worship.

What God requires and delights in from me is not a dead sacrifice, that is, not offering what I temporarily possess, but offering my life, presenting myself as a living sacrifice to Him. If I can offer in this way, offering other "external things" becomes natural.

For a long time, I have managed to persist in tithing, but many times, it was done out of "fear of God" (fearing punishment) rather than a pure heart of "giving to God." It's a "tax-paying" mindset, still viewing myself as the owner of my possessions, "God's to God, the rest to me." As a result, every time I read about Jesus' request to the rich young ruler in Matthew 19, "sell everything, give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me," I feel saddened, just like the young ruler who ultimately "went away sad."

Thankfully, from the end of 2020 until now, I have changed slightly, and in prayer, I am willing to offer myself, to offer everything. I believe this is the work of the Holy Spirit within me.

God asks me to let go of "what cannot last to eternity," "offering my life as a living sacrifice," to actually allow me to gain what does last to eternity, which is to share in the resurrection life with Jesus Christ, a life that lives forever. Jesus said, "I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full."

Today, Brother Chambers has a very good reminder, "We seem to think that God is always asking us to discard everything... He wants you to be a living sacrifice, to offer all the wisdom and strength gained from being saved and sanctified through faith in Jesus."

In the past (two or three years ago), I often fell into the wrong mindset, viewing work outside of serving the church as meaningless and seeing my profession as insignificant, stubbornly believing that only directly serving the church was the most meaningful.

After reading some books (such as "The Meaning of Work"), my perspective has changed a lot. Now, especially through today's devotional, I am more certain that if I want to serve the church, I don’t need to discard over a decade's worth of design skills to serve in a different professional manner (of course, I wouldn't necessarily need to directly use my design skills in serving the church. But if I genuinely want to serve the church, what harm is there in that?). God's past guidance for me, the experiences I’ve gone through in my career, my professional training, have not been in vain. I am willing to offer my vocational skills with a mindset of "offering my life."

Gratitude:

1. Yesterday morning, I had an honest and deep conversation with an elder Brother XJK. He provided wonderful testimony and examples, giving me great advice and encouragement for the "second half of life."
2. At noon, Anran kept saying his stomach hurt, for almost two days. Yanbing and I rushed him to the hospital. There were many worries on the way (because lately, I have been often seeing information about children with severe/chronic illnesses), praying while driving (eventually gaining some faith to completely entrust it). Later, the hospital examination showed that he was healthy. Thank God! (I believe it was God’s protection)
3. I have increasingly more communication with my wife Yanbing.
