---
title: How I Am Astonishingly Persecuting Jesus
date: 2021-01-27 23:39:44+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- devotional-notes
translationKey: how-i-am-astonishingly-persecuting-jesus
slug: how-i-am-astonishingly-persecuting-jesus
source_hash: 0c1375fa030dafa5e4e28bfcb2e5315ebe56ff4d5858421a3f60f1045cc90e77
---

He fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him, "Saul! Saul! Why do you persecute me?" (Acts 9:4 NIV)

Sometimes, I feel that faith, belief, and obedience to God are very real and down-to-earth. When I have conflicts or unpleasant encounters with others, am I willing to forgive them willingly? (Many times, it's actually my fault.) By myself, it's absolutely impossible to forgive. Even though I know not to "let the sun go down while you are still angry," it's just too hard to do.

Often in these moments, the Holy Spirit reminds me: Come before God and, through Jesus' love, forgive the other person. This is a true test of my faith and obedience to God. This test is as difficult as "the Israelites crossing the Red Sea."

I often fail. It's too hard. Because to truly forgive, pardon, and accept others requires me to lay down my pride before God, before others, and before myself. I often exaggerate the "flaws" of others, defining the whole person by this "flaw"; yet, I can't see my own issues even with a magnifying glass, believing that I'm "passable" or "neither good nor bad" before others and before God, stubbornly refusing to admit that I am completely depraved.

Reflecting on yesterday's life, I see my "unwillingness to deny myself." I ask God to shine His light on me, allowing me to see my complete depravity, which is truly eye-opening.

When I am unaware of my total depravity, when I care about and protect my so-called "dignity," and refuse to obey the prompting of the Holy Spirit, as Brother Chambers would say, I am "persecuting Jesus."

Jesus said, "I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls." With those close to me (parents, wife, children), my heart is often filled with agitation and anger, lacking gentleness and humility. This is truly where I need to learn from and emulate Jesus.

Gratitude:

1. Yesterday, due to an "gas malfunction" issue, I said something very hurtful to my son Anran. He was sad for a long time. I knew it was inappropriate, but I didn't expect a 6-year-old to fully understand its meaning. Later, I chatted with him and apologized. He forgave me. Thankful.
2. Because of the "gas malfunction" issue, through this morning's reflection, I saw my attitude towards my wife, which truly lacked Jesus' "gentleness and humility." Thankful for God's word.
3. Exchanging Figma usage experiences with designer friends at WD. Figma is indeed a fun tool.
