---
title: Worship
date: 2021-01-06 02:11:13+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- devotional-notes
translationKey: worship
slug: worship
source_hash: 865198176da59cfdd75a69ba82a7cb4a7393ef888bdc1e3afc589209105aef4c
---

Jan 6, 2021 at 9:33 AM

He then moved on to the hill country east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. There he built an altar to the Lord. (Genesis 12:8)

Chambers says that worship is offering God the best that He gives you (be careful with whatever is your best). The best things I have, those I cherish, aren’t really mine—they’re given by God. So, what do I currently hold dear? My time (life), professional skills, finances, children—just to name a few. I struggle to offer each of these fully to the Lord with a heart of worship. I see them as valuable, something I either earned or deserve. I know full well I’m not their owner, yet stubbornly, rebelliously, and foolishly, I try to manage and control them. Thankfully, over the past six months, my heart has softened a bit, willing to follow Jesus, little by little handing back to God what is His, like a child who doesn’t understand. I pray for faith to fully offer and worship.

Chambers also mentions that in spiritual life, worship, waiting, and working are not separate phases but are integrated. This is a great reminder. I am currently in a "waiting" phase. In the past, for a certain matter or direction, I would start with passionate prayer and patient waiting. But during the waiting, I would quickly become anxious and restless, gradually drifting away from God. True spiritual life should indeed involve all three simultaneously. Wait in worship; and while waiting, actively work (experiment). Waiting without worship is not truly waiting on God. This is my rudimentary understanding.

Today’s scripture, I don’t have much direct understanding, so I turned to Chambers’ insights for help. I see no issue with this approach, much like discussing difficult scriptures with a mature brother. This is the charm of writing.

I’m in Hangzhou today for some errands. Left at 6 AM, arrived at 9. Spent a few dozen minutes in the car completing today’s devotional.

Gratitude:

1. I’m grateful to God for giving me a wife who loves and cares for me. When I’m unwell, she massages and kneads my discomfort away. She often listens to me talk, even listening to my complaints.
2. The relationship with my mom has returned to a state of natural communication. She was a bit upset with me recently.
3. With patient guidance, my son can now calmly understand three-digit addition and subtraction.
