---
title: He is Lord!
date: 2021-01-17 22:43:12+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- devotional-notes
translationKey: he-is-lord
slug: he-is-lord
source_hash: cd0859d27a6b6d0d767a885a5f10fb96ccd329db5941f668b50079de693a1207
---

Jan 18, 2021 at 5:58 AM  
Thomas said, "My Lord and my God." (John 20:28)

Jesus said, "Whoever drinks the water I give them will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give them will become in them a spring of water welling up to eternal life." I have already drunk from "the water Jesus gives," and like the Samaritan woman whose life was transformed, I should "leave my water jar, go into the town, and tell the people (bear witness)."

Jesus said, "But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you; and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth." Yesterday's Sunday sermon also mentioned "bearing witness and glorifying God." To glorify God is to manifest God's life and character in every aspect of life (church, family, work...), showing it through oneself. Before manifesting, one must live out God's life and character.

The prayer in today's text, "May the love, gentleness, and patience you show me be expressed through me to others," helped me greatly in understanding "glorifying God, manifesting God." First, I must know God and His character, experience His grace, and "taste and see that the Lord is good"; next, my life must be transformed, putting off the old self and putting on the new. Then, the changes that God's life and character bring to me can bear witness before others.

For me, "love, gentleness, and patience" are things I lack—lacking gentleness towards my wife and patience towards my children. Looking back over the past decade, my life changes have been slow, but God still cares for and supports me. This truly shows God's love, gentleness, and patience. I know how the Lord treats me, so I should also strive to live it out and testify for Him.

Brother Oswald Chambers also reminds us not to let our zeal for serving the Lord surpass our zeal for the Lord Himself. Becoming "a vessel fit for the Master's use" is a fundamental.

Thankful for:

1. Hearing the sermon on "glorifying God" on Sunday;
2. Recent devotions and sermons (including those by Pastor Yu Hongjie) reminding me not to be caught up in activities but to prioritize the connection (relationship) with Jesus;
3. Through certain events (a friend I shared the gospel with passed away, relatives from my hometown came to Shanghai for treatment) and several people (a brother who is particularly fervent in evangelism), I realized the importance of "proclaiming the gospel." I also truly need to repent for currently having a "sense of duty" mentality towards evangelism, one of fear of the Lord and completing a command, rather than a "sense of mission" response to Jesus' love.

