---
title: Late Autumn
date: 2008-12-02 08:17:41+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflections
- book-notes
translationKey: late-autumn
slug: late-autumn
source_hash: 33f2bf67d8a83134779624838ef0457e6f46938b86e98a19dc8f5502ea4b5c75
---

I hadn't touched my camera in over two months, but this morning, the sunrise outside the window tempted me to capture this late autumn.

Here's a bit about my recent life. For me, 2008 can basically be labeled a failure. But I'm preparing to use the less than 30 days left in this year to change some bad habits. It's said that it takes 21 days of persistence to break or form a habit. I'm going to give it a try.

I haven't written anything in a long time because I felt that any record would be meaningless, as everything would be forgotten; nobody would remember.

But last night, when I read "The Community of the Future," there was a sentence that roughly said "an individual can only find the meaning of their existence through connections with others." To be honest, ever since elementary school, I have been a "problem teenager" (of course, calling myself a teenager now is quite "shocking"). I've been solitary, lonely, with both self-esteem and inferiority, striving forward—these traits have accompanied me for over twenty years. I have always struggled to fit in, unable to merge into any group or team. Even when I try to assimilate into a crowd, my inner self always holds me back. As a result, I have very few friends (though my friends are all wonderful). 

I suspect that in today's world, there aren't many people troubled daily by the meaning of time and self-existence like me, since everyone seems busy earning their place in the world. (Haha, I'm exhausted, not only pondering life but also occasionally having to think about making money.) I've digressed—what I actually wanted to say is that I've suddenly found great wisdom in the idea that personal meaning isn't found within oneself but in connections and relationships with others.

After all that, the conclusion is that I need to reach out to friends more often, and I will share more about my life with them. I particularly miss the following friends: President Yi, Loyal Xian, Old Zhang, Junior, and the two Hua Huas.

Autumn really is the season for missing friends.

Also, recently I've been frequently feeling an impulse to get married. I even told Miss Panda Head that I would get married next year. Alas, the other half is still nowhere to be found. This is one of the worries I have about returning home for the New Year this year. Perhaps without the "ticket" of a girlfriend, my parents won't let me come home. So sad and pitiful.

Haha, what am I even talking about.
