---
title: Recent Life
date: 2009-05-30 10:01:08+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflections
- designer-development
translationKey: recent-life
slug: recent-life
source_hash: ee7ae77178aed91a6c05b283cfcf41b76c9c5e89f76ddf14322a412179e4bcd1
---

Nowadays, I rarely write blog posts because, at this age, I'm less "melancholy and sentimental." I'm simply living life.

Some news: my wife is pregnant. If all goes well, I will be upgrading my status next February.

Since my wife is pregnant, I've taken on almost all the household chores, becoming a textbook "stay-at-home husband." It's a bit tiring, but happy.

In the mornings, we wake up at almost 6 a.m. (since we sleep early), and once we're awake, we lie there chatting. My wife is very beautiful. Haha. We talk about everything—my stress, my mood, what needs doing today; human beings need to communicate; and my wife is the best person to talk to. Any stress, burden, grievances, or discomforts, we discuss them, laugh together, and then everything's okay.

I'm very grateful to God. A home is a warm harbor, and I'm deeply experiencing it now.

As for the future, I actually feel quite a bit of pressure. With the baby's birth, there will be substantial financial burdens to bear. So, I've been actively engaged in the pursuit of material wealth. At the same time, I'm planning a [gift website](https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?key=rDKomCBEftW_TQpn-Slynxw&hl=en), hoping to start running it before the baby is born—consider it a gift for the little one. Haha.

Lately, I've put on some weight. Eating more, eating well, and moving less. So, maintaining regular exercise is a must.

About design:

I've always felt that I'm just getting started with design. I really don't understand design.

What is design?

How do you start designing?

How do you master the process?

How do you communicate?

When facing disagreement, should you persist or give up? On what grounds?

Where is the way forward for design?

In this profession, where is my direction? How should I proceed?

Is there a sense of achievement?

Do I truly love design? Or do I love the income brought by the design profession?

Every time I see [Yi Zong](http://www.xiuqin.net/) update his works, I feel ashamed, inferior, and self-critical. He truly loves calligraphy and traditional Chinese painting. And me, what do I love?

Recently, my life has been filled with freelance work and project planning. I haven't picked up a brush for over a month, nor have I recorded any thoughts on design or art. It's a bit depressing.

Life and death, something I have always considered actively or passively. Life is so amazing. Death is beautiful. God's creation is incredible.

Because there is death, life is finite. Because it is finite, it is worth cherishing. In this finite life, what should I do so as not to waste this journey?

God is marvelous, and faith is marvelous too. Faith gives me freedom, the freedom of the heart. Faith grants me eternal life.

When lying in bed chatting with my wife, I often ask her, will we be together forever? She says yes. I believe so too. If you don't believe that life is eternal, how empty life would be!
