---
title: Speech by Gao Jun, General Manager of Mega, at Ogilvy Training
date: 2010-12-17 23:17:21+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- workplace
- design
- designer growth
translationKey: speech-by-gao-jun-general-manager-at-ogilvy-training
slug: speech-by-gao-jun-general-manager-at-ogilvy-training
source_hash: 5c89fb9437948d672a654f3e0192b0f7da5238c26a74a8ef0a87f3351317a2b3
---

I've read this many times, almost every year. Reading it again gives me a boost of motivation:

---

Ladies and gentlemen, the elite among elites. Please, put down your pens. You don’t need notes. Taking them is pointless. You'll appear attentive and studious during the seminar, only to revert to being novices who blindly follow the instructions of your superiors and clients afterwards. Ultimately, all you seem able to do is submit, submit, and submit again.

I apologize if this isn't the opening you were hoping for. I ask you to do something for me.

Take a good look around you. Look at the colleague sitting to your left and the one on your right. Imagine this: Five years from now, ten years from now, the person on your left will be a failure in the advertising industry, and the one on your right—either another failure or a deserter. As for you, the guy in the middle with the black-rimmed glasses, long hair, and a little beard—do you think your masterful look will help? You’ll end up the same, with a series of failures, a failed director, a failed general director.

Honestly, standing here today, I don't see the brilliant futures of twenty-eight advertising masters. I don't see twenty-eight leaders who will make outstanding contributions to China’s advertising industry. All I see are twenty-eight failures, twenty-eight puppets of the future advertising world.

If you're feeling angry, it's understandable.

Why, you might ask, can I, Gao Jun, someone who has never worked in a 4A company or even any advertising company, stand here in the most prestigious company in the industry and casually spread what seems like heresy?

I'll tell you why. Because I, Gao Jun, am someone in this country most qualified to rival international 4A companies, able to maximize the implementation and execution of my brilliant ideas, while you cannot.

Because, on this world, and in the history of this planet, the greatest master of advertising, Ogilvy, who was also your boss and colleague, could decide to fire clients who demoralize employees, but you cannot. Ogilvy won't appear again in Ogilvy & Mather for another thousand years.

Bill Bernbach, considered a vanguard of the 1960s American advertising "creative revolution," worked at agencies including Grey for seven years before resolutely starting his own firm.

Now you should understand why you can't become masters—because you have ideas but no freedom to express them.

You are in pain, and it's understandable. All your passion and ideas ultimately end up like leaves on a tree: sprouting, turning green, then yellowing, falling uncared for, year after year, layer by layer, slowly decaying and disappearing with time. When you're old, your memoirs will be filled with phrases like "the years at such-and-such company, following so-and-so, although... but..." and full of logic akin to A Q's.

If you're feeling frustrated, it's understandable.

You need to take notes on these so-called strategy tools and creative methods. You need them because you lack the freedom to create, only to execute and imitate, so you'll never become the advertising master you idealize. Oh, certainly, if you’ve got the bravery, perhaps with your intelligence, you can become something like a Chinese advertising master, like David Sun or Zhang Jianing. But I might not need to tell you that each time they complete a task, they still obediently follow an AD's Brief?

To my knowledge, Zhang Jianing once suddenly realized his dreams and started his own company, but alas, he was too deeply entrenched.

Now, I suspect many of you, perhaps the vast majority, are pondering, "What can I do? How should I act?" It's too late. You've absorbed too much, thinking you've experienced a lot and learned a lot. Now, I suspect many of you, perhaps the vast majority, are pondering, "What can I do? Do I have a future?" Of course not. You’re not 22 anymore. You have become formulaic, dressed in colorful, individualistic coats.

Hmm... you're already quite frustrated. That's understandable. So, perhaps now is the time for a real discussion.

Absolutely not for you, the so-called elites of Ogilvy. You've been used up. Your copywriting and creative ideas are less adept than those of the new young recruits, your planning proposals are less meticulous and earnest than those of the 24-year-old Xiao Qiang. All you do is tell people under you what's wrong, tell clients "immediately," tell your superiors "no problem." The last ten plus years of your careers will be spent in conflict and regret. Your next boss will be the subordinate who left three years ago. In truth, my hopes lie with those newcomers who have yet to join these so-called trainings. I want to tell them:

> Quit, grab your backpack and laptop, and find a place where you can unleash your great ideas. Find a place close to clients and the market, or start a company of your own, and act quickly in repentance.

I am indeed no longer 22~ Sometimes I fear that my heart is like quicksand at the riverbed. Though it hasn't stopped moving forward, it cannot see the sunlight anymore~ Old Yu said, "One must learn to be like flowing water, every day the river has its dreams, which is to reach the sea and to never stop in order to achieve its goals! One must embody the spirit of flowing water~" Though I am no longer 22, I can still forever hold a heart that is 22~
