---
title: Dream 0531
date: 2008-05-31 09:43:32+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- dream
translationKey: dream-0531
slug: dream-0531
source_hash: da1cd7c7db8a2355006cfbf79877e2e483f8d35c7cd8cd38ac59614c9a12a511
---

It seemed to be early morning when I had a strange dream. 

A young female teacher from college had suddenly died. We needed to place her body into a coffin. At the time, I was on site.

"Come over and give a hand," my uncle called to me. The room was filled with coffins of different shapes—rectangular, square, cylindrical—all in dark hues. They chose a cylindrical one for her.

I was terrified to approach because I've been afraid of things related to "death" since I was a child. Yet I went over anyway.

They held her, placing her in a leaning, seated position inside the cylindrical coffin. As I helped them by supporting the teacher's waist with my arm, my fear vanished immediately upon making contact with her body. She was just a person. Why should there be fear of a person? But then came waves of sorrow and longing.

Honestly, I had little interaction with this teacher. I only had her on QQ, where she was almost always online. Whenever she had a new post, I would read it. I'd never actually spoken a word with her, and she probably didn't know who I was. But that was fine; I was just happy to follow her.

They hoisted the coffin upward, then burned some spices below it to slow down the body's decomposition.

I thought, tomorrow that flickering online QQ presence will be gone. Someday, I too will be like this, leaving all behind and disappearing without taking anything along.

Her son returned (though in reality, he was actually another teacher's son from Nanjing), deeply saddened. I offered him my condolences, though I don't recall exactly what I said. All I remember is that I spoke perfunctorily, with sadness.

Suddenly I found myself far away from them, realizing that it wasn't just their family who was grieving. Groups and groups were mourning.

The world was flat and completely black. Aside from humans, there was nothing else—no sky, no sun, no clouds, no houses, no streets; only sorrow remained. They lay prostrate over their bodies, weeping and whimpering, but no sound emerged, as the world was soundless—or maybe I simply couldn't hear any sound.

In the black background, tears gleamed like crystals.

In this moment, I was very calm.

When I woke up in the morning, I clearly remembered the dream. I certainly knew that my teacher should still be alive, but I couldn't wait to turn on my computer. Indeed, she was fine. Her latest post read: Quiet Mourning, about the 512 earthquake.

The morning news again mentioned how heroic our soldiers were in disaster relief, with shots of people prying open massive concrete slabs with their hands. Perhaps some find such scenes inspiring, as I once did. But now, I only see the insignificance of man. "Man conquers nature," how ignorant and laughable. In the presence of nature, humans are forever insignificant.

But sadly, after such disasters, we seem to learn nothing. Grief passes, but we continue to live without change. Such numbness.

Why battle against nature? Why destroy the ecosystem?

I suppose it’s because we live solely in a human world. We don't understand nature, nor do we understand plants and animals.

All year round, we never intimately interact with soil, never caress a green leaf with our hands, never quietly listen to birds singing.

We might own pets, but we treat them merely as accessories to life, like a phone or MP3 player. We treat the world in the same way; in our eyes, humans are always the main characters, with everything else just supporting roles—expendable, replaceable, able to live or die.

But the irony is, the most fragile life is human life. Thank the Creator. No matter how arrogant or cautious you are, life only lasts a few decades (which is why everyone is equal). Yet trees, with little effort, live for hundreds of years, witnessing generations come and go.

I won’t say any more at the end. I am truly a child of rebellion. Yet no matter how stubborn I am, my heart always longs for faith. Otherwise, where would the soul find peace?
