---
title: Squirrels, Trees, and Old Drawings
date: 2008-03-21 08:46:09+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflections
translationKey: squirrels-trees-and-old-drawings
slug: squirrels-trees-and-old-drawings
source_hash: bce2fd6163c4832be363ba75b3abe4fee0c6cd93e58a17924126b1e539c669fc
---

Last week, I moved to a new home by the Hangzhou Botanical Garden. It's incredibly comfortable. Barring any surprises, I'll likely stay for over a year. Thank God.

On Wednesday morning, I was enjoying the view from my balcony. Suddenly, I noticed a squirrel boldly scampering along the neighbor's wall, then jumping onto a large tree at the end of the wall.

This is also that squirrel.

The squirrel disappeared, but I discovered a beautiful cedar tree.

This morning, I wandered around the botanical garden. Everywhere, there were real and vivid things. In the garden, whether running, walking, jumping, singing, or roaring, I felt extremely relaxed. Particularly the roaring, or more accurately, the whooshing sounds—rising and falling in response to one another. As I drew, I occasionally responded to the distant whooshes from the forest. Being with nature really makes me feel the true essence of "being human." However, while sketching another favorite tree, I was quite surprised by what I saw. As I focused on the tree across from me, appreciating all its captivating features, something plump emerged from one side of the tree. At first, I thought it was a large dog, but soon realized it was an elderly man. Impressive! I've seen people crawl before, but never with such dedication. Don't misunderstand, he was exercising.

The botanical garden in the morning is mostly frequented by the elderly, most of whom are there to exercise. It's truly touching and reminds me of the beauty of life's youthfulness.

I set out at 6:30 AM and returned home by 7:40. In and out, my mood and outlook were completely refreshed. I offered a heartfelt prayer of thanks with sincerity and from the heart.

We often believe our lives come from our parents and that the air, water, plants, and animals around us naturally accompany our arrival into this world. But is it really so?

I am awestruck by the greatness of the Creator.
