---
title: Teach Us to Number Our Days
date: 2008-06-25 08:16:14+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- prayer
translationKey: teach-us-to-number-our-days
slug: teach-us-to-number-our-days
source_hash: 25c83a5b49b1aeeb7666d837c87fce4831730443eb15ab61a0e6a8b302fc27f0
---

"Teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom."—Psalm 90:12. Recently, this verse has moved me profoundly. Life is finite, time flies, and I've done so little with the time I have, often feeling I've wasted it.

But even if I've accomplished some things, what does it ultimately matter? In the end, death comes to us all.

Thank God. There is a path to a good life, and I am certain of this; there is one path prepared just for me, and I am certain of that too. Yet, my vision is clouded, my heart is confused, my body is weak, and I struggle to find the right direction. I often delude myself into thinking life is long, drifting through the days; I feel sad for not finding what I seek, trying to fill the void with fleeting things like food, desires, shopping. But these are truly empty.

"Teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom." This is like a light on the path ahead as I journey through the darkness of night. Even if the way is not yet clear, at least the direction is set.

How should I number my days?

Entrust daily life to God, maintain a good relationship with Him, live honestly, devoutly, sincerely, follow the initial inspirations of my heart, act decisively and courageously, hold hope and faith in my heart, and fill life with love.

For now, this is what moves me today.
