---
title: Parents
date: 2009-11-26 13:27:17+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- hangzhou
- parents
translationKey: parents
slug: parents
source_hash: a17fcdf78fd95752a4637299f675e7409a5f0a05fd4b7cf13dacfbcdc3062e7e
---

If it weren't for the birth of my child, I think it would have been difficult for my dad to come all the way to Hangzhou. He doesn't want to trouble us or make us spend too much. This time, he only stayed for three days because the pigs, chickens, and ducks at home needed feeding. Sigh.

Born in the countryside, and with our home right by the airport, even though flights pass over our rooftop constantly, we've never been on one. Occasionally, my parents would say they wish they could fly someday. Because of this, I booked tickets online twenty days in advance, hoping to fulfill this small wish of theirs.

"There's nothing special about flying..." Dad said after getting off the airport bus. But I could tell he was quite happy.

I took three days off to accompany them.

However, the second day was mostly spent resting at home, busy with other things. My parents from the countryside felt like they were caged in our one-bedroom apartment. Back home, they could wander freely in front and behind the house, looking at the fish pond and the vegetable garden. But here, stuck inside, facing the TV, or going for a walk meant trekking down five floors, and there isn't much to see downstairs. Truly a challenge.

My parents kept insisting, "No need to go out, just stay home."

My wife took them to the Xixi Wetlands. "Nothing much, just mountains and waters, we have those at home. But there are plenty of herbs, like mulberry leaves and dandelions, good for reducing heat..." she said, handing me a bag of herbs to dry on the balcony. Indeed, we have all the mountains and waters at home; only the poor city dwellers in this steel-reinforced concrete jungle need such pitiful, artificial ecological parks.

I've always wanted to take them to see the show at Songcheng, *Songcheng Eternal Love*. I saw it once and thought the visual effects were quite impressive. I estimated my parents would like it. But my mom gets car sick and didn't want to travel far, plus it would require transferring buses to get to Songcheng... I had to coax and persuade them to Songcheng, with tickets and the show costing 180 per person. I had to buy the tickets without them seeing to avoid them worrying about the cost.

We got the tickets and went in. As expected, although the ancient buildings in Songcheng are replicas, they still held great appeal for my parents. They enjoyed themselves a lot. We went to the 6:50 show, and I waited outside. Honestly, I felt quite happy to have the chance to show them my appreciation.

As I anticipated, the show didn't disappoint them. Mom kept commenting, and Dad, as always, kept a low profile, but I could tell he was very pleased. "It's great, really great... we used to only watch this on TV... it's so real... just that the tickets were too expensive."
