---
title: The Experience of Being Sick
date: 2025-04-09 13:18:32+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
translationKey: the-experience-of-being-sick
slug: the-experience-of-being-sick
source_hash: 5295c4066fc3bea9c84f81899d4370b5562c89c32a199fd372f0260560d00e38
---

In my life, there are two instances where I got sick. The first time was in 2017 when something unexpected happened. It might have been due to a sudden drop in temperature, which caused discomfort in my tailbone. I ended up bedridden for three weeks, unable to get up, walk, or do anything but lie down. The second, more serious instance is my current situation, which seems to have been triggered by pollen allergy, resulting in allergic conjunctivitis that lasted for nearly two weeks. I still haven't fully recovered from the conjunctivitis, and it occasionally flares up.

Being sick for an extended period places significant mental stress on a person. At work, prolonged absence impacts other people's schedules and overall work plans, and it's hard to find replacements, leading to immense pressure and feelings of guilt. The same goes for family life; unable to do much, one feels like a burden, bringing a sense of guilt.

There are many negative emotions. When in pain, one hopes for understanding and care from family. True care means genuine concern, checking in on the condition, and meticulous attention. Even when family members do very well, the patient can still feel unsatisfied, sensing a lack, leading to self-pity and resentment.

In the past couple of days, my allergic conjunctivitis persisted, accompanied by nasal congestion, coughing, and sometimes even a bit of asthma. My mood fluctuates; sometimes, I'd find comfort and hope in one or two scriptures, but other times, I'd feel very low, filled with complaints and dissatisfaction. At other times, I feel endless anxiety about the future. This cyclical fluctuation continues.

Last night, my sickness reached a peak. Allergies blurred and irritated my vision, coupled with a cough, sore throat, and fever, all interwoven. I could do nothing but wrap myself in the quilt to rest, yet I couldn't fall asleep. So I listened to the audio Bible, particularly the Book of Revelation, and reflected while listening.

In Revelation Chapter 3, the letter to the church in Laodicea states: "I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were either one or the other! So, because you are lukewarm—neither hot nor cold—I am about to spit you out of my mouth. You say, 'I am rich; I have acquired wealth and do not need a thing.' But you do not realize that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind, and naked. I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in the fire, so you can become rich; and white clothes to wear, so you can cover your shameful nakedness; and salve to put on your eyes, so you can see."

How similar this is to my recent state, mindset, and current ailment.
