---
title: Reflections on Green Card Status
date: 2022-10-28 06:47:14+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- life-in-north-america
- christian-faith
translationKey: reflections-on-green-card-status
slug: reflections-on-green-card-status
source_hash: 98296a1d58ad37846bb623880e3ca5a1cc291ac0b786af689b60ac81d0108dbf
---

I've been in the United States for 81 days now.

As a new immigrant, everything starts from scratch, and there are many things to take care of when settling in. For example: opening a bank account/credit card, setting up accounts for water/electricity/gas/garbage disposal, finding schools for children, obtaining health insurance, taking the driving test, and so on. Often, due to unfamiliarity with the surroundings and language barriers, adapting to the processes, regulations, and slow pace in the U.S. can be challenging, causing me to fall into anxiety. This anxiety comes from both the pressure and uncertainty of dealing with immediate matters and the endless stream of issues that need attention, one after another.

After a simple morning devotion one day, I began to reflect on what I can be grateful for amid my current anxious state. Immediately, the thought of my green card status came to mind. A Korean elder who has lived in Los Angeles for many years once told me that many people have lived in the United States for years without securing a legal long-term residency. And yet, I was able to get a green card soon after arriving in the U.S., which is truly something to be thankful for. Indeed, I had forgotten about the importance of having this status. Compared to this, other tasks, though troublesome, challenging, and unknown, can still be resolved one by one. The most important issue has been settled—why should I worry and fret? Why not take my time?

Moreover, I thought about the issue of identity from a faith perspective. In God's eternal kingdom, I already have a "green card." This identity is so significant. Even though there is injustice, ugliness, and suffering in the world, and my life may be busy, difficult, and painful, the most crucial aspect is that I have already obtained the identity of heaven. My eyes are too easily clouded by worldly affairs, causing me to frequently forget my identity.

Christians, don't forget—never forget—that we have a new identity; our lives carry no further worries. Nothing in this world is as important as this identity. Reflecting on this identity should fill us with gratitude, knowing the heavy price behind it. It should also fill us with joy and hope, considering the beauty of the eternal kingdom that this identity grants us access to. 2 Corinthians 5:17 says, "Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, the new creation has come: The old has gone, the new is here!"

To family and friends who have not yet embraced the Lord, life in this world is so fleeting. We arrive with nothing, and we leave unable to take anything with us. In this world, we are merely travelers. Our earthly end is just a new beginning in eternity. Based on the identity you hold, one path leads to heaven, and the other to hell. Which identity do you desire? Mark 8:36 says, "What good is it for someone to gain the whole world, yet forfeit their soul?"
