---
title: Obstacles to Prayer
date: 2010-12-09 01:37:16+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- thoughts
- prayer
translationKey: obstacles-to-prayer
slug: obstacles-to-prayer
source_hash: 4463d771408a0cca82e97caf3ec81f4aecf60c105c9db4d0ffd6e35865b4a62d
---

Suddenly, when I sang "Ebenezer, up till now the Lord has helped us" this morning, my heart hesitated for a moment. 

Do I really think so? 

If I truly believe this, there are so many things in my life now that I need to pray about. Yet, I still cannot move on from what seemed like a failed prayer last time.

I often hear this teaching: "You can place your needs in prayer, but ultimately whether God will grant them depends on His will; some unanswered prayers may not align with God's intentions. You should pray in a way that aligns with God's will."

Whenever "God's will" is mentioned, the only thing I think of is "evangelism and the salvation of souls," but this is something I'm not very willing to embrace (though I do want to, yet there's always a bit of hesitation and struggle).

At the very least, I am not ready to make "evangelism and the salvation of souls" the most important or top priority in my life.

I consistently focus on the present reality, on my own interests. 

For instance, how to do good design, how to start a business, how to make money,...

These are what I care about, what I plan daily, and even worry about. Yet, I cannot transform these into prayer topics because they obviously do not align with "God's will."

Neither am I willing to forcefully relate these matters to "God's will" to achieve my goals.

This is why I cannot entrust them in prayer.

Additionally, I finished reading "The Life of John Bunyan" the day before yesterday, and one sentence left a deep impression on me: 

The devil always wants people to take every little thing in life as evidence of whether God is pleased with them, loves them, or even proof of God's very existence. 
