---
title: Practice Writing
date: 2009-06-18 09:10:46+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflections
translationKey: practice-writing
slug: practice-writing
source_hash: f0264271d47c5d23046bb79d82678a8c3c257abb3290563e6d79fe704b661b7b
---

I've long realized I'm not great at expressing myself, whether in text or graphics. I really envy those who can convey their thoughts clearly and effortlessly.

But what's the point in envying? Time to practice.

For my blog, I used to think only content of value should be published, to be fair to the readers. Who wants to hear one person's daily ramblings?

Honestly, I know I don't have many readers.

So I gave up.

I've decided to turn this into a space for my random thoughts. Occasionally, when I do produce something, I'll shift it to 'www.hulitu.com.'

Also, I want to practice writing in English, so please excuse any errors in words or grammar.

I've been aware of my lacking in expression for a long time, not only by text, but also by graphic. Sometimes I envy others' ability to express ideas clearly and easily. But envy doesn't work. Practice!

I always think, only the valuable things are worth publishing. Nobody wants rubbish about your daily life.

In fact, I do not have many readers, I know.

So, give up? Yes...

So, I decide to position my blog as my word pool. And those works, including art and design pieces, will be moved to www.hulitu.com in the near future.

In addition, I would like to practice my English writing. So if you find some grammatical errors, forgive me. And tell me in a comment. Thanks.

I am a freshman.
