---
title: Practice
date: 2009-07-29 23:21:47+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reflections
translationKey: practice
slug: practice
source_hash: c3be7ec5805e3f59735f2e33a1c6ae3668b2ba53745efa9be974ae241209ac82
---

My wife is asleep.

I turn on the computer I shut down five minutes ago. After soaking my feet in hot water, I force myself to practice writing.

Life after marriage is undoubtedly happy and sweet. But I've become increasingly less self-disciplined, planless, unable to persist. It feels like life is just fine whether it goes this way or that way. Even the gift website I planned two months ago hasn't seen any progress.

The same goes for work, every day just seems the same. Alas.

my wife is sleeping. I restart the PC that just be closed 5 minutes ago to force myself to practice expressing after washing my foot. life after marriage is happy and sweet. but i am becoming to lost self-control,no plan,as if the daily life is so so. the gift website was delayed. not to mention the work i do in company,just so so.alas...

In fact, I have many things to do, but my confidence in facing the unknown is sometimes strong, sometimes weak. My wife says I need to change, to change from the heart, from the point connected with God.

in fact,i have many things to do. but my confidence always changes when facing uncertainty,big sometimes,small sometimes. you should change,my wife says,from deep heart,from the place connected with God.

But who is God?

but,God?

I'm a bit confused. Perhaps some friends would be surprised to hear someone who calls himself a Christian have such doubts. But truly, who is God?

i m in a little confusion.maybe somebody is surprised,the people who titled himself as christian has such doubt. but i am really in doubt who is God.

Today, I learned that a good friend's father passed away, cancer.

Sadness welled up inside;

But what can I do?

I asked my wife, what if something like this happens to us?

I feared she didn't understand, so I directly asked, what if our fathers pass away?

There's nothing we can do.

Truly nothing.

a friend's father died,cancer. i was sad. if these happend on us,what shall we do?

{to be continued...}

Faced with life, my current attitude is pessimistic. Because maybe tomorrow, or maybe there's no tomorrow. This pessimism isn't entirely bad; it makes me cherish the present moment from my heart.
