---
title: A 'Interview' Chat with My Parents
date: 2020-11-04 23:42:22+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- home
- parents
translationKey: a-interview-chat-with-my-parents
slug: a-interview-chat-with-my-parents
source_hash: d00c756f2e24e583727939b14181b9c66600dac3711621ec3bb3352b6adaa27b
---

In the last week of October, I went back to Changsha alone and lived with my parents for a week.

Compared to my younger brother, I am much calmer and more distant towards my parents, deliberately maintaining boundaries and distance. I often pride myself on being "independent": financial independence, intellectual independence, and independence in managing my own family. I frequently reference the Bible's Genesis 2:24, "Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh," to validate my beliefs and behavior as orthodox and faultless.

During the parenting journey, when faced with moments where our children's actions seem "thoughtless and ungrateful," my wife and I often embrace each other and sigh: Why are parents so devoted and selfless towards their children? What's the point?

Upon reflection, we naturally realized that our parents were once the same, giving to us selflessly.

Because of this understanding and empathy, I've slowly realized that I lack love towards my parents, and cannot even speak of having a close relationship.

As my brother says, "Every time we return home, our parents treat us like guests." Every time we visit for the New Year, our parents treat us well, catering to our needs. After a week, they send us off in good spirits. There's rarely any friction or unpleasantness, but there's also hardly any deep conversation or closeness.

I also deliberately keep my distance, sharing only the good news and not the bad. Since my first year of work, I've never shared my financial situation with them, putting their minds at ease. But with them, there's almost no deep or meaningful conversation, often just superficial pleasantries.

There should be much to say between parents and children, many things to discuss, and plenty of feelings to share. If you live together for decades yet remain only on the surface, it is indeed regrettable. At the very least, as a parent, I don't want to have that kind of relationship with my children. As for my relationship with my parents, I hope for more substantial change.

I often see in my parents' eyes and demeanor that they wish to understand more about our lives; I actually want to learn more about their past, their current thoughts, and expectations for the future. I also really want to share the message of the Gospel with them. Yet, somehow, I'm unable to break through that barrier and take that step.

The distance between Shanghai and Changsha is only about 1,200 kilometers, an hour and a half by plane. Unlike previous New Year visits "for family," this time, I just wanted to go back and experience their lives, eat and talk together.

One evening after dinner, the three of us sat around the table. After a moment of mutual silence, just as we were about to get up and busy ourselves, I suddenly said, "Dad, tell me about your childhood."

That was how I opened up the conversation. My role was somewhat like a host, guiding my dad to recall and narrate through a few simple questions.

So my dad talked about his gifted elementary school years, dropping out in middle school to farm, working in the agricultural labor team to earn work points, the bland communal canteen, and later on, arranged marriage, splitting from my grandfather's household, and the struggles to provide for his family.

In the midst of this Q&A, nearly two hours flew by. These events happened decades ago, but my dad remembered them vividly and recounted them with enthusiasm. He seemed genuinely willing to share with me.

I was very surprised by this. It turns out an ordinary, humble person also has their story, cherishes their story, and is willing to share it with someone who sincerely wants to listen.

A few seconds after this "interview" started, I quietly pressed the record button on my iPhone. This interview, to me, is incredibly precious and worth keeping.

My daughter Linda often asks me, "Why do you and Grandpa only talk about 'Have you eaten? What dishes?' on the phone? It's so boring, isn't there more you can talk about?" (With a disdainful look)

Suddenly, I realized that having some deeper conversations with parents is not as difficult as it seems.
