---
title: A 5-Year Summary of a Beginner's Experience in US Stock Investment
date: 2024-07-08 21:40:46+00:00
draft: false
tags: []
translationKey: a-5-year-summary-of-a-beginner-s-experience-in-us-stock-inve
slug: a-5-year-summary-of-a-beginner-s-experience-in-us-stock-inve
source_hash: 4224704beff113784fe0e6377c07da95b023ac62fcee7060ae54491b23ff9107
---

I started dabbling in stock trading in 2019, and though it's been five years, I still consider myself a beginner. The passage of time doesn't necessarily translate to increased understanding or experience unless you're deliberately studying. I once saw a joke that it's better to be a beginner who knows little but makes a profit than an expert who loses money despite in-depth research (though, of course, a beginner should know something too). So, I'll casually share some of my beginner experiences.

### Basic Principles

- **Invest with spare money**, never exceeding a quarter of your total assets. Even if you lose it all, it should only lead to sadness and sighs, not thoughts of extreme measures.

This is quite challenging. If someone lacks principles in other areas of life, they won't have any to follow in investments. Principles are essentially rigid and inflexible; I happen (unfortunately) to have such a personality (to the point where sometimes even my wife and kids find it annoying).

### Stock Selection

- Industries you are familiar with, such as the Internet.
- Products you are currently using.
- Large companies with a market cap over 100 billion USD.

### Trends  
Trends (or directions) are extremely important. If you choose the wrong trend (direction), no amount of effort will help.

- **Country**. I made some money with NIO (bought at $4, sold at over $50) and held stocks in Tencent, Meituan, Haidilao, Xiaomi, etc., but gradually sold them off after Covid-19. I like these companies, frequently use their services, and admire their corporate culture (based on direct or indirect knowledge), but they can't contend with the top leadership. So, I avoid stocks in Chinese companies.
- **Industry direction**. I'm not familiar with chips, but after witnessing Chat GPT's capabilities, I believe AI will transform all industries in the future. Thus, in 2022, I bought some Nvidia stock, which has since appreciated nearly 800%. I forgot to mention, I read "Chip Wars" before buying it;
- **Time**. I use iStock on my Mac as a tool to reference for stock selection. It's a very simple tool, and my use of it is straightforward: I look at a stock's performance over 10 years (or its entire history if it's over 10 years old). If over that period, the stock has an upward trend, I'm very likely to choose it; even if there are fluctuations or even large declines over one or two years, it doesn't matter. I have enough patience to hold.

### Mindset

- **Invest with the mentality of supporting a beloved company**. The concept of "buying stocks means buying a company" is easy for me to understand. Back in the day, I joined Liulishuo for half my salary, with the other 50% as an investment in them. This mindset feels quite cool. After reading "Elon Musk," I found it interesting to think that I could participate in the ventures of an entrepreneur willing to take risks and deliver results with a portion of my money.
- **Resist being fulfilled by rising stock numbers**. Sometimes, I deliberately restrain myself from opening the app to check stock changes. The feeling of being controlled by numbers is terrible. The Bible says, "Above all else, guard your heart, for everything you do flows from it."

Special thanks to my friend Forrest. I've learned some basic knowledge and awareness through the books he recommended and our discussions. Often, I think, if I can earn money by "sneaking a bit of learning," how much could I earn if I reached his level? On second thought, never mind. I don't want to spend too much time on this.
