---
title: Old but Not Dead
date: 2009-12-15 12:18:28+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- thoughts
- nihilism
translationKey: old-but-not-dead
slug: old-but-not-dead
source_hash: 8518792f02d4072ae4a7bb45542e7b01835112a0155fd05d088fdb28db0fad32
---

In the morning, I took my wife to the hospital for a prenatal checkup, and I saw many elderly people there. One of them had almost completely white hair (probably in their seventies) and was shuffling along, holding a prescription from the doctor.

It suddenly made me wonder, at such an old age, why bother with seeing doctors anymore? They're nearing the end of their lives anyway. My thoughts have nothing to do with disrespecting the elderly or disrespecting life. I simply can't understand it: We all know life ultimately comes to an end, so why try so hard to extend it, even if it's just for one more day?

Moreover, in old age, there are so few things one can think about or do. Is living just about passing the days? If you think about it, those who die young, ending their lives at their brightest moments, perhaps achieve some kind of completeness.

Every day, I live with a sense of anxiety, watching time slip by before my eyes. The meaning of life is truly something unfathomable.

When my faith is strong, I feel that the joy of living is in walking with the Lord. How should I put it? It's when what you do aligns with the Creator's plan.

When my faith is weak, life feels utterly meaningless.

Not wasting time and doing something interesting is my current thought.
