---
title: Home, Demolition, Remembrance
date: 2022-10-01 23:52:59+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- home
- changsha
translationKey: home-demolition-remembrance
slug: home-demolition-remembrance
source_hash: d9adaca3896d4e65f8d5cfa16b5e9e9e7a1213c5799a9d8d03d9032894146ab3
---

On September 13th, my brother sent a video to our family group chat—our old countryside home has been demolished.

The demolition of our family home, something we'd discussed for over a decade, suddenly became a reality. The topic of demolition had come up in family conversations countless times. Often, we actually looked forward to it. Demolition, if all went well, meant a substantial sum could be gained in a short period. It could mean improved living conditions or greater financial ease. Yet, when I saw in the video the home we'd lived in for over thirty years—doors and windows knocked out, roof dismantled, glass and tiles scattered on the ground—I was deeply moved. Was my home really demolished? The sadness and weight in my heart were stronger than I had imagined.

The old house had two parts: new and old.

The old house was built around 1970 (we estimate). It was once used by the village to host "educated youth" sent to the countryside. This house was also known as the "Educated Youth Point" by the villagers. It had seven or eight rooms, red brick and black tile, wooden doors and windows, and some rooms still had earthen floors (rather than cement). In 1989, my father bought this house for about 8,000 yuan; I was six years old at the time.

The new house was built around 1993, in the then-popular style of two-story houses, with a three-row main hall entrance and white ceramic tile exterior walls. The new house's structure was quite unique, with perfect symmetry on the left and right. On both sides, there was a main hall, bedroom, bathroom, and staircase. Anyone looking from outside could tell that this house was built by my father for his two sons' future families. As my father put it, if the brothers got along well, the house would be open between them. If the brothers were estranged, a wall could be built in the middle to divide it into two separate homes. In our village, especially among my parents' generation, harmonious relationships between brothers were rare.

In 1997, on the southern side of the house, by my brother's half, a dining room and kitchen were added. With this, the family home was established, and we lived there until now.

Nearly 30 years ago, my father's simple plan to build a house for his two sons ultimately couldn't withstand the changes in their life paths. After my brother got married, he moved to the city of Changsha, while I lived in various cities after graduating from university and getting married. This home eventually became a place where we returned to infrequently, a brief refuge.

The harbor carried countless emotions and memories: leeches sticking to our feet during rice planting in spring, harvesting rice under the blazing sun with our parents in summer and fall, sneaking to fish in neighbors’ or uncles’ ponds while our parents napped, nights spent stargazing from bamboo beds, the blooming peach trees and sweet peaches in the backyard, countless times fishing by our pond, the unchanged taste of home-cooked Hunan dishes by my mother throughout the years, my mother's tears when we left for faraway places, the trivial disputes and mutual support among neighbors... Among all these memories, the clearest and most vivid is the time spent at home during Chinese New Year. In the blackened kitchen with its open-fire stove, our family would sit around the fire pit, burning firewood my father had prepared since autumn. Above the fire, various salted meats would sizzle and drip oil. Whether it was windy, raining, or snowing outside, the house was always warm.

Now, the geographical location that was home no longer exists. For my small family and me, we've long been accustomed to moving from city to city, from one residence to another. Physical space is just an external form of home; more fundamentally, no matter how we move, our family is always together. However, for my parents, the sudden demolition of the place they'd lived in for a lifetime requires time to accept and digest this reality.

Because of my Christian faith, I fully believe that every person is a temporary sojourner in this world; we will ultimately leave this world (for heaven or hell). We cannot truly possess anything tangible or intangible in this world. Reflecting on the snippets of life at our old home—decades of life seem like a fleeting moment—this makes me even more aware of the brevity of life. This life, so short, limited, incomplete, and sinful, is incomparable to the blissful eternal life with Jesus. I pray that the eternal, holy, and good Lord who created and saved us guides my beloved parents, brother, and his family to know Him and receive everlasting life.
