---
title: Let's Talk About Learning English
date: 2021-08-15 09:56:19+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- learning-english
translationKey: lets-talk-about-learning-english
slug: lets-talk-about-learning-english
source_hash: 63301f8c87908e118ea827f71e72b6e80f35e7412fe6f2ab52ab5a3702d7cc26
---

Shanghai has removed English from the list of compulsory testing subjects in primary education, which, to some extent, is a positive change for parents who have a basic ability to think independently. When English is no longer just a subject for exams, it prompts serious consideration: Why should children learn English? Or more directly, what is the use of learning English?

As someone who has studied English for over 20 years, yet remains quite "average" at it, but still maintains a strong interest in it, I'd like to talk a bit about what value English holds for me. Naturally, my perspective on learning English will also influence how I think about and decide on English learning for my two children.

Language, aside from conveying information, thoughts, and emotions, inherently possesses beauty. On one hand, there's the rhythm and rhyme found between words, sentences, paragraphs; on the other, there's the emotional resonance born out of cultural heritage, life experiences, and circumstances. When I read ancient Chinese prose, poetry, or the English Bible, I can often appreciate this beauty and feel moved by it. This is not because I have any profound attainments in Chinese or English languages and literature—quite the opposite, I am rather shallow in these areas. Yet, even with this shallowness, as long as one has a quiet heart to observe and read, the beauty of language naturally reveals itself.

If one desires to understand the world's affairs more objectively and comprehensively, whether everyday matters or national or international current events, relying solely on one language or a single perspective will surely lead to bias, especially in a nation like China where information is "filtered." Don't become complacent. The most convenient way is to find a way to step outside China's internet to seek related English information resources. The world is increasingly degenerating and chaotic, so it's hard to say that having more information will "bring clarity," but it’s certainly better than making judgments based on the words of one source.

Looking at great linguistic and literary works, various knowledge, and scientific research from past and present, the vast majority are recorded in English. I narrow-mindedly believe that since our time is limited, if we must select some of the essence of human civilization to learn (or sometimes just to appreciate), why limit ourselves to one nation's traditional culture? Why not extend the selection range to the entire world? Instead of solely embracing the identity of "descendants of the dragon," I am more concerned with how I can become a more normal, well-rounded "person."

I am a user experience designer, and very fortunately, from my sophomore and junior years of college, my focus on design and internet industry information has been in the English-speaking world. This has been hugely beneficial to me. It is no exaggeration to say that the best professional information resources in modern society are found in the English-speaking world. Unless you want to study Chinese medicine or Chinese cuisine, even then, professional information might still be written in English. (This is a wild guess on my part. I am not a believer in Chinese medicine, despite having been given countless herbal medicines as a child.)

Finally, there's one more practical application for English— it aids in my understanding of the Bible. When I find certain translations in the Chinese Union Version of the Bible hard to comprehend, I refer to and compare them with some English versions.
