---
title: 'Discussing Design: Users Didn''t Find This Feature?'
date: 2024-07-10 00:40:22+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- design
translationKey: discussing-design-users-didnt-find-this-feature
slug: discussing-design-users-didnt-find-this-feature
source_hash: 8335f2505cd20582788985ec80adcc61ed1b1cb2804c223fd6a3d447eaea4cc0
---

When receiving feedback like "users didn't discover/find this feature," PMs and designers often become anxious. For instance, on a registration page, users didn't notice the "register with phone number" option, or they didn't find the bookmark or pin features.

In response to such feedback, designers shouldn't be too quick to take the blame. Consider it from two aspects: one, review the design and conduct relevant research; and two, which is what I want to discuss today, isn't it quite normal for users not to quickly find or use certain features in some specific scenarios?

For example, some non-core features aren't needed by all users. A simple real-life analogy: there are stores in a shopping mall I've visited for years that I've never set foot in.

Additionally, due to differences in age, cultural level, and lifestyle, people's reactions to electronic products vary greatly. When finding or using a feature (even a core one), hesitation or slow operation is perfectly normal. As long as it doesn't trap users at a certain step, it's acceptable.

The above doesn't mean designers shouldn't pursue better usability and ease of use. It's just that designers shouldn't overreact. Otherwise, the accumulating psychological pressure due to overreaction can lead to endocrine disorders. :)
