---
title: Moderation
date: 2009-12-16 09:52:46+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- designer growth
- design thinking
translationKey: moderation
slug: moderation
source_hash: f2ab06843c774afcf43343eded58884dd45f54e83acf82511da60f60da4ecd4b
---

In the morning, I opened my computer and saw an email notification on gtalk, habitually clicking on it.

As gmail was loading, a thought crossed my mind: Is this email really important enough to check during this prime hour of 9 AM? It seems I don't receive emails that important...

Once gmail opened, sure enough, it was a submission email from a design website showcasing visual works, listing many impressive pieces. I picked my favorite and clicked in. I habitually scrolled the webpage from top to bottom. There were indeed a few visually stimulating effects that caught my attention, and I paused briefly. In total, I finished reading this piece in less than 2 minutes.

Another thought crossed my mind: Is appreciating works in this manner interesting? Or rather, is it meaningful?

Yet, every day, I browse through countless webpages, view numerous design works, and read an untold number of words. I can't even clearly remember what I looked at yesterday. I've purely become a garbage bin of information intake.

In the internet age, information is so abundant, it's overwhelming.

Information is like delicious food. In my childhood, there weren't many tasty things around. A few years later, there were more delicious options, and since the body needed it, I gobbled them up; but gradually, large, unchecked consumption became a habit, the consequence being "[eating without savoring its taste](http://baike.baidu.com/view/1885509.htm)." Without moderation, my sense of taste dulled, I couldn't distinguish what's delicious from what's not, what I needed from what I didn't.

Information consumption requires moderation.

So, I've decided to carefully appreciate just one piece of work each day, to view it seriously, think it over carefully, and then engage in some self-practice.

Conveniently, [Delicious](www.delicious.com)'s [Firefox plugin](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/3615) can help me with this. When I encounter a good article, I tag it with the year and month, like 0912, and use KeyWord to mark the date, like 091216, forming a dedicated directory on Delicious. That way, the good things I collect don't have to be read immediately; I can read them slowly, later at home.

Moderation is necessary in design as well. I plan to write a special piece on this later.
