---
title: Pollen Allergy
date: 2025-04-02 15:00:18+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- north-america-diaries
- christian-faith
translationKey: pollen-allergy
slug: pollen-allergy
source_hash: 13851864b1c6634626d9628dfa881f44dd36f26d5026268179caf135af7a6474
---

Experiencing pollen allergy for the first time in Dallas, I, someone who had never had pollen allergies before, found my eyes extremely uncomfortable—bloodshot, swollen, itchy, constantly tearing up with mucus that gummed my eyes shut, making it hard to open them. After keeping them open for a while, I had to close them to rest. Sometimes, there was even a stinging sensation, which was truly unbearable.

Because of this, I had to put down what I was doing and lie in bed to rest.

Reflecting on past life, I often felt my life wasn’t on track and wanted to stop—stop aimlessly wandering at night, stop endlessly scrolling through social media, but I could never manage it. This time, however, it was the discomfort in my eyes that forced me to stop, and life slowed down as a result. This kind of "stopping" felt justified, because it wasn't laziness or deliberate procrastination on my part, but an external, irresistible force that compelled me to pause.

After stopping, I began lying in bed pondering questions about life and existence. Although, often filled with worry and anxiety, there were moments when a calmness would arise, leading me to ask, "Who am I? Who is God?" Simple prayers, at first just a sentence or two, gradually increased in content.

With these prayers and my heart turning to God, an initially stiff and distant relationship with God seemed to begin to restore a little. I began to feel a slight peace within, and even a touch of joy.

It was a truly wonderful feeling.
