---
title: Considered the Scum of the Earth
date: 2021-02-03 00:54:53+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- devotional-notes
translationKey: considered-the-scum-of-the-earth
slug: considered-the-scum-of-the-earth
source_hash: 45cac41065e6a98d18f16ad88cc6b31a93b077bc31e14ee8729c1ec3714ec7fe
---

Feb 3, 2021 at 6:17 AM

When slandered, we answer kindly. Up to this moment, we have become the scum of the earth, the refuse of the world. (1 Corinthians 4:13 NIV)

In Paul's time, Christians were seen by the world as filth (Garbage: trash, waste), the scum of all things. Naturally, garbage is worthless, despised, and discarded by the world.

Curiously, I have never regarded "Christians" as junk or scum. Quite the opposite, I take pride in Christians, and pride in Christian civilization. Often, in front of family and friends, I recount the changes Christian civilization has brought to the world. Without going too far back, let's look at the changes brought to modern China. Most of the prestigious universities and the best hospitals were originally established by missionaries and Christians. (In the end, one can't help but lament: times change, and interlopers occupy where others have built.)

Even today, I can cite many examples to prove that Christians are not the scum of the earth. For instance, the moral upbringing and conduct of most Christians are above the societal average, and most Christian families are happier and more fulfilled.

I refuse to accept that! How could we be considered trash, scum? How can we be despised and discarded by the world?

Although the benefits that Christian faith and the civilization based on it bring to the world and humanity are evident, one thing has remained unchanged since Paul's time: the world is opposed to Christ. At its core, regarding the gospel of Christ, the world views the Christian faith and Christians as garbage, without value, to be discarded by everyone.

If I continue to harbor a sense of superiority based on the external changes brought by the Christian faith to the world and the good behavior of the Christian community, and use this to argue, "we are not garbage," with the world, or even try to please the world, then I too become anti-Christ.

The gospel of Christ has set me apart from the world, making me a different person. It is not the external behavior that is different, but my identity has changed - a sinner who, because of Jesus' death, is seen as righteous by God. It is a difference in perspective and values.

What the world despises and rejects - Jesus Christ, I am to regard as most precious, as something indispensable to my life. I am to sell everything to buy this priceless pearl. What the world sees as precious and pursues with life itself, I am to view as dung, seeking to avoid at all costs.

May the Lord help renew my "vision."

**Gratitude:**

1. Thank God who is my family's support. There is so much uncertainty in life, close calls, and even crises, but God is my refuge. Praying to Him brings peace to my heart. My daughter often has nosebleeds, and many children around us do too, but we worry about encountering something like leukemia. During these worries, we pray, and in prayer, there is peace (at least temporary peace when faith is weak; daily peace is renewed daily). Today, I will take her for a related checkup, asking the Lord for protection;
2. Thank God for guiding us to slowly start family worship. It's simple, we sing a hymn, read a psalm, and each person shares their prayer topics for the day (repentance, thanksgiving, petition). Through worship, we not only have family harmony but also ask the Lord to help both adults and children worship God sincerely;
3. Thank you, Brant, for the Clubhouse invite. It's quite interesting. Although I'm not keen on or addicted to online social networking, I am very interested in new products and novel experiences;
