---
title: Make the Most of Your Time, for the Days Are Evil
date: 2021-05-13 23:33:33+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- devotional-notes
translationKey: make-the-most-of-your-time-for-the-days-are-evil
slug: make-the-most-of-your-time-for-the-days-are-evil
source_hash: d3aa0573c81c41b5e0202ec6394796ca5ec64dfa5e3bd64f10e5fedc3bcfb41a
---

Make the most of your time, for the days are evil. Do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is.  
Ephesians 5:16-17 NIV

making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.

As a Christian, the recent events around me—whether the increasingly tense environments of faith and education, or tragic and baffling incidents like the "Chengdu No. 49 High School" case—have unwittingly plunged me into a complex state of anger, disappointment, worry, panic, and bewilderment.

Five or six years ago, although the world was also filled with injustice, absurdities, and tensions, I still felt relaxed. Perhaps this was because I was an outsider to these events, lacking a clear understanding of them.

Now, despite my limited understanding of the world, I find myself directly involved in certain respects, feeling at times like I am part of the "river of history."

In recent weekends, I watched "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy with my children. When evil comes, is there any place in the world that remains untouched, enjoying peace and quiet? The Shire? Elven realms? No. Is there any people who can stay out of it? No! Even the Ents had to rise up and fight.

This morning, as I awoke to begin another day in a lowly state, I stumbled upon an article. The phrase "make the most of your time, for the days are evil," from Ephesians 5:16, caught my eye.

The present times are indeed evil. The visible, perceptible evil comes from mankind, whether from the humble or those in high positions. However, the source of evil, the greatest adversary, is Satan. The greatest battle is the spiritual one unseen by human eyes.

People often say that life is short, and we should cherish our time. The Bible tells me that it is because the days are evil. The English Bible clarifies "make the most of your time" — using time wisely.

I believe the best use of time is, as Ephesians 5:17 says, "Do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is." This means adjusting and aligning oneself to seek God's will and live according to it.

A daily change needed is to stop mindlessly scrolling through social media platforms like Weibo, Twitter, Instagram, and Zhihu, to avoid wasting time.

Dedicate necessary and consistent time to family worship, helping children know God, especially during these extraordinary times.
