---
title: Planning
date: 2010-01-27 12:27:15+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- entrepreneurship
- thoughts
translationKey: planning
slug: planning
source_hash: 2015c28c080c52de1d1b3a4386b11f602ca087e820c1985a3261870683d9b0c6
---

There is a company. 
When there's money, it feels like anything can be done. So, everything gets done, but nothing is done well—the scope stretches too far, and it becomes increasingly difficult to manage. 
Naturally, the absence of money arrives swiftly.

At that point, it feels like nothing can be done. With a small team and limited power, yet much work to do, you face endless patches and are at a loss. Never talk about innovation; when something new comes out, it lacks subsequent support and improvement, ending up as a mess.

Why is it that nothing is done well with or without money?

I've pondered this for a long time and suddenly understood—it's the lack of planning.

When "planning" is mentioned, the thought of the middle school text "Tian Ji's Horse Racing Strategy" suddenly pops into my mind:
"Inferior against superior, average against inferior, superior against average."

Simple yet perfect.

How to make a plan, in my opinion, comes down to these points:

1. Recognize yourself? Clearly understand which of the horses you have in hand are superior, which are average, and which are inferior.
2. What are the goals? Long-term goals? Short-term goals?
3. Once the goals are defined, focus energy and give your best effort.
4. For a long-term endeavor, execution and enduring willpower are essential.
