---
title: The Design Process
date: 2009-11-10 14:14:45+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- designer-growth
- design-thinking
translationKey: the-design-process
slug: the-design-process
source_hash: 52bc0a34c5306a2b4b87f04905eb52d96a318a2e2aae5f326a2b1d970f0dbca9
---

Recently, I've been working on a TV music player, and at the start of the design, this question came to mind.

When you receive a requirement, how do you begin designing? Where do you start?

Understand the requirements? Then what? Sketch a rough framework? And then? Do you dive right into Photoshop and start crafting?

For a long time, that's exactly how I designed; including the design of this music player today. Suddenly, a thought popped into my head: "Can this be considered design?"

After a bit of reflection, I don't think it is—it’s merely an assemblage of commonly used design elements and techniques; to put it bluntly, all my design work is just about playing with gradients.

I thought of the phrase "having a plan in mind." A creator clearly knows what they want to express and then executes it all at once. That's real design, isn't it?

What I've been doing doesn't really count as design. There's no direction, just trying different things as I go along. If one effect looks good, I'll use it; if a structure works well, I'll adopt it. After spending a few hours, there will eventually be a result. Hey, it looks pretty good. Even though here is Apple's crystal or metallic texture and there is Yahoo's color scheme, the effect isn’t bad. The boss is happy, the client is satisfied, and I'm content too—what more can one ask for? Everyone works like this.

[A tragic story](http://baike.baidu.com/view/2528756.htm?fr=ala0). Haha.

Although sometimes design indeed involves going with the flow, starting without direction and mindlessly showing off Photoshop skills is definitely not design.

I want to develop the ability to receive a project, thoroughly understand the requirements, close my eyes, and activate a brain more powerful than a dual-core processor, letting ideas clash in my mind; gradually, a vague image appears; slowly, it becomes clear; no rush, hold back, think a bit more; as the idea becomes more robust, when I can’t hold it in any longer, I let loose with Photoshop or Illustrator for an instant release.

Haha, it sounds a bit exaggerated and idealized. But I really want to train myself to think and work in this way.
