---
title: Designers Should Avoid Passive Compromise
date: 2025-04-11 14:49:45+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- designer
- designer-growth
translationKey: designers-should-avoid-passive-compromise
slug: designers-should-avoid-passive-compromise
source_hash: 6bde02b2c85a2eabd43641c8b83f4ac125601a4123e3a63c9f6f33dd62e36ce7
---

In the design industry, compromise is actually a neutral term. There are two types of compromise: active compromise and passive compromise.

Active compromise occurs when, after thorough communication, discussion, and even confrontation, you genuinely find that the other person's ideas, creativity, or plans are better than yours. At this moment, you bravely and honestly say, "Hey, yours is better, I concede." That's active compromise. Active compromise is often challenging, especially when the person you're compromising with is your subordinate, someone outside the design profession, or even a user.

Passive compromise happens when you've exhausted all efforts to sell a design idea, but it's ultimately rejected, or when you're overwhelmed by non-design-related authority. For instance: your superior is a client, your boss, a customer, etc. At this point, you're forced to accept the plan—that's passive compromise. Passive compromise is often easy. Many times, your inner monologue is, "Alright, have it your way. After all, you're the client, the boss, the leader. Do what you want."

When designers adopt a submissive mindset and make a passive compromise, they think: whether it turns out well or not, it's your idea, your decision; I'm just implementing it. This way, it's easier for me, since I'm just doing it for the paycheck, why bother torturing myself?

However, two major harms to your career lie behind passive compromise.

First, you're ultimately responsible for the design. When you receive design feedback, whether good or bad, it's just a small part of the entire design system. Even if it's excellent feedback or an idea, if you passively accept it without actively processing it, the design logic will inevitably become inconsistent, ultimately leading to a flawed design that can't be complete.

But if things really get to such a terrible state, who should bear responsibility for the dismal design result? Even if you want to say, "Wasn't it your decision from the start? I just executed it," it's often at this point that no matter if it's your client, your boss, or your leader, they can firmly and justifiably say, "You are the designer, the one I paid." Indeed, they're right. You are the designer, and you should be responsible for the design's outcome.

Secondly, and crucially, constant passive compromise is draining your precious passion for design. If every designer still insists on designing—especially in those first few years of entering the industry—I believe every designer has passion and pursuits in design. This passion and pursuit is your love for design, an incredibly valuable and crucial element worth safeguarding.

When you frequently make passive design compromises, merely maintain your current job and income, you're essentially trading off your most precious design passion for something else. To put it more bluntly: you're killing the great designer living within you.

Therefore, as a designer, regularly reflect on your motivations and attitudes—are they active or passive? Everyone has their pursuits, stances, and even bottom lines. A designer without any pursuits, stance, or bottom line is not worth collaborating with.

Hence, Proverbs 4:23 from the Bible says, "Above all else, guard your heart, for everything you do flows from it."

I remember my first full-time design job after graduating from university. I applied for a design position at a startup internet company in Changsha. Since the company was small, my direct collaborator was the boss.

Finally, the boss asked me, "Do you have any questions or requests?" I said at the time, "In my future cooperation with you, you can give any feedback or request, but please specify the reasons or rationale. I cannot accept overly subjective feedback, such as 'it doesn’t feel right' or 'it seems odd.'"

The boss was slightly surprised but also appreciated my stance. Perhaps he saw or felt the appearance of a designer with a pursuit and attitude—even if I was just a design novice fresh out of school.
