---
title: Design, Fishing, Carpentry
date: 2024-10-30 01:50:36+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- design
- fishing
translationKey: design-fishing-carpentry
slug: design-fishing-carpentry
source_hash: 710183ae7024857ce59060b7dfed7570cd4647943be682cfdd13a024ec25b2cc
---

Design is my profession; the other two are my hobbies. To me, these three things share some commonalities.

When I started first grade, my classmates had backpacks with multiple pockets, which I envied, but my family couldn’t afford them. What we could afford was a small olive-green backpack with a single layer. So, I sewed a compartment inside that single-layer backpack. That’s the first design I remember creating.

In fifth or sixth grade, I would heat sewing needles to bend into fishhooks, use chicken feathers as floats, and cut bamboo to make fishing rods. Naturally, my interest in fishing was cultivated from a young age.

As for carpentry, I didn't engage in it much as a child. I recall our family hiring a carpenter named Wang to create furniture at our home, and we treated him with respect. Between the sawing and planing, I witnessed the process of creating objects.

Additionally, my brother is currently involved in these three activities as well. Except for fishing, the other two are not things we discuss much; we each do our own thing. Fishing, however, holds a deep emotional bond. Every time I return to Changsha, we must go fishing together. Yet often, when my brother takes me fishing, we return empty-handed (in fishing terms, it’s called "being in the Air Force").
