---
title: Who Can Be Against Us?
date: 2009-12-21 12:05:57+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- jiutian-music
- reflections
- workplace
translationKey: who-can-be-against-us
slug: who-can-be-against-us
source_hash: f82cabe0f562699e6dee764e48234d6cf72c6bdfcb805c94c39a08a0a06d1030
---

Yesterday, I presented a proposal to the company leaders, sincerely hoping they would approve and support the plan. Even though I have some skills and experience, this is such a big plan that I feel a lack of confidence and ability. However, I can see what Jiutian needs to do, and things always need someone to accomplish them. Since there is no one more suitable, I will volunteer.

The Bible tells me that if I focus on people or myself, I will inevitably feel inadequate and lose confidence because of my own limitations. The challenges that follow would erode any remaining confidence, leading to feelings of inferiority, fear, stagnation, and ultimately, abandonment. But if I keep my eyes fixed on the Creator of the heavens and the earth, it’s completely different. He possesses the power to create all things, so what is a small website project to Him? Moreover, He is happy to help those who seek His assistance and grants them the ability.

I constantly remind myself to focus solely on God in this matter and to pray and seek His will.

For such a project, I need a clear mind. But any vanity or slightest power will confuse my thoughts; I need more humility.

Give glory to God.

Inspired by Romans 8:31 in the Bible: If God is for us, who can be against us?
