---
title: 'Discussing Children''s Education: Mission, Passion, Knowledge'
date: 2020-09-07 14:07:32+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- reading-notes
translationKey: discussing-childrens-education-mission-passion-knowledge
slug: discussing-childrens-education-mission-passion-knowledge
source_hash: 132519dd00969207a594569b93942db827ba72e449515283093f12ff54ea55c6
---

使命，这个词，在 2020 年夏末的时候，在我心里有一点被唤醒。这源自于 8 月份，参加了 4 个周六全天的宣教动员培训课程《国度课程》（一个基督教宣教的入门级培训）。

In early September, I began reading **"Excellent Sheep"**. About a year ago, my child's principal, Ms. C, highly recommended it during a parent meeting. I bought the book back then, but it had been sitting on the shelf ever since (it's so easy for adults to get distracted 😄). When I picked it up again, I noticed the pages had yellowed a bit.

The author, **William Deresiewicz, spent 24 years in the Ivy League**: undergrad and PhD at Columbia University and five years as a graduate advisor, followed by 10 years at Yale. I think, with such a background, his observations and criticisms of American higher education are likely to be fair.

Like some friends around us, we are considering having our child study in the U.S. someday (if they have the ability). This thought doesn't come from a deep understanding of American universities, just a vague comparison and recognition. U.S. education is generally ahead of what we have domestically, so if there is an opportunity and conditions are favorable, choosing to study abroad is unlikely to be a mistake.

However, according to the author's observations, there are numerous problems with American higher education (especially at elite universities).

Prestigious institutions like Harvard, Yale, and Princeton keep students under intense competition from undergraduate admission to graduation and employment. Under such high-pressure competition, students' development in academics, character, interests, and social interactions becomes extremely **utilitarian and superficial**. For example, spending a mere day or two experiencing a professional activity allows them to claim they have "dabbled" in that field, which they eagerly note on their resumes to add points. Or, to appear well-read and knowledgeable in social situations, they read only the introduction and conclusion and reviews of books.

Ivy League students, the cream of the crop, have come to see competition and pursuit as normal life states. They seem to believe that continually outcompeting others through relentless competition, continually proving oneself, is the only way to obtain the corresponding sense of security. For competition, they are willing to sacrifice health, friendships, love, personal exploration, interest development, extracurricular activities, and so on.

Societal norms and competitive environments place these elite students in a torrential current that demands constant forward motion, lamentably without time to question: Why set out in the first place? Why keep rushing ahead? **They don't know where their passion lies.** And even if they do know, they must bury it, as the "smart ones" understand that "this isn't the optimal choice." Pursuing one's passions and interests is becoming increasingly rare.

This disregard for inner passion and the pursuit of success in its worldly sense manifests more blatantly when elites choose their college majors and career paths. "Wise people" flock to "high-paying industries" like finance and consulting. Meanwhile, fields such as ministry, writing, teaching, archaeology, and even basic science research struggle to gain recognition. Finance and consulting aren't inherently problematic, but if the entire young population gravitates towards them, it warrants reflection.

By their thirties or forties, despite achieving worldly success, many among the elite face a **loss of a sense of value**. In midlife, many begin to ponder: Why did I choose this major, direction, lifestyle? Where’s the value in my work? Were the initial choices correct?

In my view, pondering "value and direction" in midlife is neither too late nor wrong. However, wouldn't it be better to discover one's personal mission, value, and passion earlier in life? Ideally, universities should help students discover and explore these crucial aspects. Yet current university education, even at the world's top Western institutions, has lost this meaningful role, devolving into what are essentially vocational training schools driven by secular values.

Of course, the author acknowledges that, fortunately, in recent years, U.S. colleges have begun to recognize these issues (for example, professors prioritizing research over teaching), and there are signs of improvement.

There will always be prestigious universities worldwide, but there will never be a perfect one. Although a perfect university does not exist, the imperfections in university education should not be ignored. These issues and flaws in university education are almost universally noticeable and a topic of conversation, yet few manage to break free from the trend. Why might that be?

I would venture to say it is a lack of faith.

On a superficial level, education consists of various layers, from the shallowest to the deepest: **knowledge, passion, mission**. Let’s first discuss the innermost layer: mission.

### **Mission / MISSION**

For me, discussing "mission" is difficult. This word carries a strong Christian connotation.

The Chinese explanation for mission is quite fitting: **the task received and to be completed by an envoy; the responsibility to be fulfilled; referring to those sent on a mission.** See "Zuo Zhuan, Zhao Gong 16": "The disrespect at the meeting and court, the unheeded envoy, both incurred disgrace from major powers, exhausted the people without results, subjected their crimes to them unknowingly, and brought shame to Jian."

A mission is not a self-assigned task. It is a **received responsibility from elsewhere, carried out under a mandate.** Usually, one only receives a mission from a source deemed higher, more correct, and more perfect.

A mission is not about accomplishing one's own desires or ideas but about fulfilling a will higher and more complete than one's own.

Who could be higher, more correct, and more perfect than a person? Only God.

Upon graduating from university at 22, working for 15 years, the "midlife value loss" mentioned in "Excellent Sheep" is something I deeply felt in my thirties. I frequently experienced an inner emptiness, constantly searching for a sense of purpose, constantly questioning myself: "Where is my direction?" "What is worth devoting myself to?" Regrettably, I was unable to find answers. Only recently did I gain some insight into why I couldn’t find my mission.

Because I was always looking for a mission within myself, attempting to self-assign meaning and value, aiming to fulfill my own desires and selfish interests. As such, **such a "self-appointed, self-directed" mission cannot withstand the test of time, nor even convince oneself to pursue it.** Let alone use such a mission to guide one's life.

As a Christian, the mission must return to faith, reflecting on God's will, receiving the mission God has bestowed upon each individual.

What is God's will? The entirety of the Bible tells us: God's redemption of mankind, the restoration of His kingdom. A Christian’s mission is to fulfill God's will. Each person, residing in different times and nations, with individual talents, gifts, and passion directions, is different. God hasn’t specified the details of tasks for those bearing a mission but provided a "compass" to clarify the direction of the mission.

After participating in the "Kingdom Course" in August, my understanding of mission was updated as described above. For children's education, especially education based on Christian faith in schools and families, helping and guiding children to recognize and receive their mission, enabling them to find life's true value in youth, is important and precious. Rather than wandering and being lost in midlife, spending a lifetime in lamentation and helplessness.

### **Passion / Passion**

To fulfill a mission assigned "from above," there needs to be a means. To put it more plainly, there needs to be a professional talent. A person's profession should not be chosen casually or according to trends; it should be chosen based on personal interests and characteristics to fulfill and complete the mission. This is where a person's passion lies. One can tell if a person, even a child, is passionate about something.

There are various professional talents in the world, and they all serve to love and help people achieve God's will. Talents vary, both large and small, but are given by God according to the measure of faith (Romans 12:3). Thus, the term "gifts" in Christian faith is more appropriate than "professional/talent" from a human perspective. A gift is the ability granted by God.

Who should help children discover their gifts (professional talents)—the family and schools or parents and teachers? I believe it must be the parents. Good parents better understand their child's personality and interests and can impart insights regarding "gifts" through practical family life.

Based on my own growth experience, choosing art in middle school was a choice made by my father (who observed my fondness for drawing as a child), almost utilitarian, since art talents could earn extra points in high school entrance exams. Choosing "design" as my university major was somewhat coincidental, as I, a high school student, knew little about design. Fortunately, whether it was art or design, I was passionate about it.

Some friends around me, including many candidates I’ve spoken with over my career, have not been as fortunate as I am. Many are not passionate about their profession and are unclear about where their true passion lies.

### **Knowledge**

Viewed over a lifetime, the knowledge acquired during school years seems less crucial. This is why there’s a joke that a person's most knowledgeable and versatile period is during high school exams (when their knowledge is most comprehensive and rigorous). After high school, entering university and the workplace, much of the knowledge acquired in physics, mathematics, biology, geography, and so forth is forgotten entirely. But losing this knowledge doesn't impact daily life or work. (Of course, what remains isn’t necessarily knowledge itself but cognitive skills.)

Secondly, more important than knowledge itself is the ability and method to acquire knowledge. In "dynamic learning," the "learn dynamically" part refers to having good learning methods and abilities, while "apply dynamically" means practice, which is also indispensable in the realm of knowledge.

### **Conclusion**

Children’s education is a marathon, a long-term undertaking of value. Discovering and positioning direction, and activating motivation, far outweigh the accumulation of knowledge. A mission provides a sense of direction, while a profession/skill aligned with the child activates their passion and motivation.  
I would go so far as to say, if you overly focus on the short term in the matter of children's education, **you are destined to fail.**
