---
title: Recent Tidbits
date: 2010-05-18 13:28:56+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- people-in-life
translationKey: recent-tidbits
slug: recent-tidbits
source_hash: bed1b008543f42b9ea93bb43fd2e1955d6f8f979ac30a836a1eee64f9b6bda3a
---

First, my wife and kids have gone back to their hometown and will stay there for about two months. So, for these two months, I'll be living the bachelor life. Although I'm a little excited about getting some time to myself to do my own things, I constantly feel lonely and really miss my wife and kids.

Second, my grandmother passed away. We faced the conflict between Christ's faith and rural funeral customs, specifically, the need to kneel and participate in rituals during a rural funeral, which are prohibited by God. At first, my wife and I struggled and weren't sure how to handle it. But through prayer, we clarified our stance to uphold our faith. My family was very understanding, especially my grandfather. The final decision was for me not to go home for the funeral, which was somewhat regrettable.

Third, after hearing the news of my grandmother's passing, I was in a low mood all day. Beyond the sadness, I was more struck by how empty and fleeting life is. What is the meaning of life?

Fourth, recently, I've been extremely busy. It's been a "chaotic battle" state, taking on two projects with short cycles and overlapping schedules. I'm feeling battered and exhausted, yet also excited, aimless, and accomplished. But I understand that this isn't the state a designer should be in.

Fifth, even I, a country bumpkin designer, have started using a Mac. However, I believe that hardware is never as important as the brain. Improving equipment is just a brief, costly matter, whereas upgrading the brain is immeasurable and long-term.

Sixth, lately, due to being single, I've been meeting up with some friends to chat about work and design.

