---
title: Faith Above All
date: 2008-05-23 19:08:07+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- reflections
translationKey: faith-above-all
slug: faith-above-all
source_hash: de1777657570286eeeabb2d63f51cb0b7f69d9c0aafc1b38ce3ed3821ee2c365
---

Every time I receive information from the outside, it impacts my Christian faith. The lecture I attended last night at Zhejiang University was no different. [Video link](http://v.youku.com/v_show/id_co00XMTU0MDUyOTI=.html)

Maybe others are right, maybe I have doubts about my faith, or maybe my understanding of faith is limited. But so far, the information I've received shows that besides Christ, nothing else can address the question of life's meaning; for me personally, the question is: "Where is my life headed?"

For nearly two years, life has felt empty. I've tried doing many things, but I still can't find meaning.

Almost every day is spent in some kind of search.

Perhaps there are times in life when you need to take things as they come, a bit numb to it all.

But once you clearly understand life, living, and time, some force compels you to search for the meaning of each moment as time slips away. Day by day, year by year.

No matter how rebellious I am, or how far I stray from faith, deep down I believe I need faith.

How small we humans are, especially in the face of disaster.

In just a moment, life might end tomorrow, or even with a long life, it’s only a hundred years.

Is death really the end of true life?

Some people around me believe in reincarnation. But I believe in eternal life, although I have no certainty about it; just emotionally, I prefer to believe in eternal life. Everlasting life. I am me, a unique individual, living in the Creator's history.

If reincarnation exists, and in this life I seek constantly, only to be reborn as a pig in the next? It seems quite laughable. What meaning does life have?
