---
title: Rereading 'Steve Jobs' Biography
date: 2023-07-23 23:27:04+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christian-faith
- design
- reading-notes
translationKey: rereading-steve-jobs-biography
slug: rereading-steve-jobs-biography
source_hash: a46aa2ab141f27a3c52953141fd53df9598faf2bd11cfb81675f483b79652c38
---

Once on a whim, I picked up the "Steve Jobs" biography again after many years, and it still moved me a lot.

### Born to be Abandoned, Shaping His Life

Looking back on my own life trajectory, the keywords "poverty" and "inferiority" have impacted me profoundly. This means that every aspect of my life has been influenced deeply.

What strikes me deeply is that the design philosophy behind the Apple products I use daily—like computers, phones (including various apps), tablets, and headphones—is directly related to Jobs' experience of being abandoned at birth (though not the only factor). This experience left Jobs with an extreme lack of security, driving him to control every aspect of reality. Unlike the open ecosystems of Windows and Android, Mac and iOS form a closed system with tightly integrated software and hardware. This product philosophy was influenced not only by his childhood experience of being abandoned but also by his perfectionism and the influence of his father—who taught him to take care of even the unseen parts of a product.

### No Pursuit of Perfection, Timely Release

As a product designer, the most frustrating aspect is the uncontrollable progress of product development. In the industry, it's often the company's leaders who affect the progress. They might set an impossible deadline "off the cuff" or frequently change requirements during development, or focus on seemingly trivial details when the development team is under pressure. When Jobs led the product development at Apple, NeXT, and Pixar, he demanded both short timelines and on-time delivery while facing sudden changes and nitpicking details. Although his team eventually delivered the products each time, none was perfectly or punctually delivered. Perhaps only professional managers (in Christian terms: hirelings) could actually achieve perfect and punctual delivery. Only true operators, the product's "parents," care if their "child" is healthy and good-looking. They are driven to think, regardless of time and place, about how to improve it.

Employees, professional managers (hirelings), and founders/product creators each have different perspectives and pursuits. Writing this made me realize that what I need to change is not to "stop pursuing perfection and timely delivery," but to change my own perspective and not become a "hireling."

### Motivation and Passion

The most important thing about making a good product or doing a job is the motivation and passion behind it. Apple's charm lies in the passion Jobs put into it, whether regarding personal computers or the iPod series. In contrast, Bill Gates and Microsoft lack these attributes, even though they are still commercially successful. Having a deep passion for something makes "the journey the reward," allowing you to enjoy and pursue excellence in it.

### Pursue the Ultimate Experience, Don't Be a People Pleaser

Jobs was certainly not a nice person. He had character flaws and many moral issues, such as honesty. In product design, he was domineering and self-centered, with no room for disagreement. Few found joy in working with him, as he was changeable and disregarded people's feelings, often using coercion, mockery, or irony (some methods of his reality distortion field) to alter others' ideas and wills. However, those who worked with him eventually felt immense fulfillment from the final results—an ultimate, perfect piece of art.

This is what I lack and as a Christian, what I find perplexing. In Christian contexts, gentleness, humility, harmony, considering others better than oneself, and modesty are common. Principles, focusing on the issue, and reasoned argument are rare. My usual "people pleaser" role stems not only from Christian influence (likely due to my misinterpretation of the teachings) but also from my inferiority complex and concern for others' opinions.

### Personal Value, Personal Desire, Returning to Faith

A few weeks ago, I read the missionary Eric Liddell's biography "A Man with a Mission," which was very inspiring as a Christian. Rereading "Steve Jobs" stirs passion as a designer. Which designer wouldn't want to create products that change the world or be part of such designs? At Liulishuo, I've indeed created my own work, but that's in the past. Re-reading Jobs, I feel eager to try once more.

However, I need to view personal ambitions through my Christian faith. God is the Creator and the greatest designer. God created humans in His image to manage the world. He delights in seeing people use the talents and abilities He bestowed upon them, creating to glorify Him. This is undeniable. Meanwhile, human pride easily strays from God, seizing His glory and putting oneself on par with God (as in the Tower of Babel).
