---
title: Changsha
date: 2021-07-10 01:57:20+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- family
- changsha
translationKey: changsha
slug: changsha
source_hash: eb878e3dd6f4c433a76a8acb9bb7ea6f4fa55e5cf947f03fbe4e7de5cb5733d7
---

Changsha, my hometown, where I grew up and my life's journey began. Yet, for more than a decade, I've been trying to escape from Changsha. As a teenager, my parents encouraged me to study hard and "break away from the rural life to eat 'state food.'" After graduating from university, the best opportunities for design and the internet were in first-tier cities. It seemed that leaving your hometown was considered successful. Conversely, returning to Changsha after years of hard work seemed unsuccessful. Thus, even during the New Year holiday in Changsha, my heart was full of anxiety and unease, eager to return to the city where I worked (previously Hangzhou, now Shanghai) to find social security in the state of "actively working and living hard."

This year, the number of times I've returned to Changsha and the time I've spent living there have been the highest ever. I'm surprised to find that I'm slowly finding a sense of peace in living in Changsha. This sense of peace is a feeling of being convinced by "this is life." There are possibly two reasons for this.

Firstly, perhaps for our family, life in Shanghai and Changsha isn't that different. The resources and facilities needed for life, within our consumption capacity, are mostly available in both Shanghai and Changsha. Therefore, I often ponder: for ordinary people, what are the advantages of living in a big city? As for work, I'm currently working remotely, so there's no difference. In terms of social interactions, we mainly connect with church and Christian friends, and there's basically no difference between the two cities.

Secondly, perhaps I've started to value family more. I'm not saying "more," but "started to." Clearly, contrary to what my friends think of me, for family, I can be described as "heartless and cold," overly independent from my parents. In this regard, I might have misused the biblical teaching "a man shall leave his parents," while neglecting the teaching to "honor your parents." Although I don't like to frequently mention "midlife," at this point in life, I've realized that relationships with people, especially with parents, even if they're not extremely important, shouldn't be ignored. Putting myself in my parents' shoes, for my children, I hope they will accompany me more when I'm old. My parents probably hope the same, right?

Lately, I've paused writing for a long time, and life seems peaceful on the surface, but deep inside, it's extremely restless. The environment is challenging and unstable, there are many unresolved issues, and many possible directions in life. Looking back at all my past decisions, leaving Changsha for Hangzhou in 2006 and joining the church, my "flash marriage" in 2009, joining Liulishuo and moving to Shanghai in 2013, choosing C education for my child in 2015, leaving Liulishuo in 2019, working for WD in 2021—each decision seems like my choice, but upon reflection, it's all been the guidance and care of the God I believe in. I truly don't know what the future holds, or what tomorrow will bring.
