---
title: Random Thoughts
date: 2009-11-20 13:15:22+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- jiutian-music
- rage-youth-mentality
- workplace
translationKey: random-thoughts
slug: random-thoughts
source_hash: cc39785277477fc936093a0d43b4633e455c6e1bc52e44b195bd0c8d64a44f99
---

I'm actually a very strong-willed person, and this extends to my work as well. Back in 2006, when I was at Boomplay, I was always thinking about how to compete with Tudou, how to achieve the best, giving it my all; but the understanding and insights of the leaders determined the company's direction; the company's direction shaped the company culture, which was impetuous and opportunistic; the company culture influenced the work atmosphere, methods, and morale of the employees. My enthusiasm eventually cooled down. My years in the professional world have taught me that it's very difficult for a small, powerless employee to turn the tide or change the situation in any significant way. I am selfish; I don't want to waste my years in a so-called struggle where the outcome is already determined. So, I chose to leave. Now, Boomplay has come to an end.

I'm currently at NineSky. I used to be full of confidence and have accomplished a lot, feeling a sense of satisfaction. But, has the situation improved? Ten years have passed, some companies still remain young and full of energy, while here, it's old and deteriorating. If nothing can be changed, then it's time to leave.

Don't ask me what my life plans are! Don't ask me what the meaning of design is! The questioners might not even know the answers themselves.

All I want is a stage to realize my dreams. The ideal company for me is:

- From leaders to employees, everyone is focused!
- No interest conflicts!
- No overtime!
- Good air circulation in the office, no smoke smell, and meeting rooms not turned into smoking rooms.
