---
title: Ya-Well
date: 2009-08-19 12:47:46+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- people-in-life
translationKey: ya-well
slug: ya-well
source_hash: 77c2e1067ed5f27605b55d6701f2338e6ea1ea3884e676d583e7f7027b4961cf
---

Last night, I had hot pot with some friends and we chatted about various interesting topics. One of them, which left a strong impression on me, was about child education. Perhaps it's because I'm about to have a child that I'm eager to learn about such things.

"Ya-Well," when she was just over a year old, accidentally got her finger caught under a flip-top desk lid. (It was said her finger was completely flattened.) It was excruciatingly painful, and she naturally cried. Her mother then came over to comfort her.

"Ya-Well, Ya-Well, the desk didn't do it on purpose. You need to forgive it, pardon its fault..."

Amazingly, Ya-Well's crying stopped, and she gradually calmed down.

By this point in the story, I was already quite surprised. Before I could express anything, my friend continued.

"This way of educating is completely different from how our parents raised us when we were young. I remember when I accidentally bumped into a table or chair and cried, my parents would always blow on my injury and then firmly smack the table or chair saying, ‘It's bad, it's bad, it shouldn't have hit my good baby'... Somehow, this comfort would calm us down too. However, the impact on our hearts is completely opposite. What Ya-Well internalizes is ‘forgive others, pardon others, self-reflect,' whereas we were taught ‘it's others' fault, you're blameless, complain about the world.' Perhaps you and I received such ‘education' from our parents when we were young, but now we aren't people who ‘blame the world and others.’ Yet, it's undeniable that this kind of negative ideology has seeped deep into our hearts; maybe we are just unaware, but that doesn't mean it doesn't exist."

I agree with my friend's point of view. I greatly admire the way Ya-Well is being raised. Such an education requires immense wisdom and, one might say, is built on a foundation of faith. This got me reflecting on my own beliefs, considering how I will interact with my child in the future.

Now, Ya-Well is two years old and absolutely adorable. When we first met last week, she was a bit shy, but by the next day, she was calling me uncle.

Additionally, her name comes from the Bible's Book of Genesis, [Jacob's Well](http://baike.baidu.com/view/82659.htm). Isn't it beautiful?
