---
title: Qingzhiwu Forum
date: 2008-03-28 09:39:53+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- my-story
- hangzhou
translationKey: qingzhiwu-forum
slug: qingzhiwu-forum
source_hash: a13c87e78cdb60f87b6dc107cbe3778603ad3040ec12515bda5bb4766a2b2254
---

Last night, a few brothers gathered at my place. Actually, I'd prefer to call them friends, because in my view, not everyone can be called a friend.

We covered a wide range of topics—politics, current trends, the economy, faith, our personal lives, and finally ended on the topic of "entrepreneurship." 

On this topic, I didn't speak much, just listened. I sensed that each brother has accumulated years of skills, and these abilities and passions need to be expressed through actions to realize their sense of existence. Yet, I also sensed their worries, their lack of confidence because, in common perception, business is relatively complex, particularly due to the so-called unwritten rules in the business world.

Actually, I've been pondering this for quite some time. The thing I want to do is to use my hands, through painting and design, to transform my understanding of life and existence into tangible, appreciable items. I don't aim to influence others; I just seek peace of mind and steadiness of soul. If others see what I've created and remark that life can indeed be like this, it would be a great comfort to me. This undertaking, as Zhou put it, I would "give it my all," and absolutely not retreat.

I've been worried because I lack the necessary skills to accomplish this. But if the God I rely on is almighty and true, then "I can do all things through Him who gives me strength." I'm sure my brothers agree with these words and the power they bring.

To me, what I'm aiming to create is exceptionally beautiful. If such beauty needs to be realized through various worldly, ugly rules, I’d rather not do anything at all.

We truly have nothing to rely on except God.

This morning, I marveled at how quickly time flies. 2005 seems just like yesterday, and yet I've accomplished so little so far. Whatever you set out to do, give it your all; whatever you plan to do today, make sure you finish it. Such is my conclusion.
