---
title: Darkness and Vision
date: 2021-01-18 22:30:24+00:00
draft: false
tags:
- christianity
- devotional-notes
translationKey: darkness-and-vision
slug: darkness-and-vision
source_hash: 3f04dff1796705a8bd175bfaf3aabee72f7dc60e8d73bb905c1fb8aab63f6f91
---

Jan 19, 2021 at 5:59 AM  
As the sun was setting, Abram fell into a deep sleep, and a thick and dreadful darkness came over him. (Genesis 15:12)

The meaning of this "thick and dreadful darkness" isn't immediately clear. There is no explicit scripture explaining where this darkness comes from or what its purpose is.

Following Brother Chambers' explanation, in the midst of great darkness, what the saints should do is listen to God's word and wait on Him. They should not rely on their own "torches" to act, even if sometimes it's "for God." Genesis 16 indeed serves as a cautionary tale of "not listening and waiting for God, turning instead to human cleverness and advice" (Abraham listened to Sarai and took Hagar, resulting in the birth of Ishmael).

This is something I need to practice. I am always in a hurry to take action, eager to get moving. Be still and listen.

Why the rush to act? For me, there are a few reasons: 1. Eager to prove myself; 2. Eager to find confidence in accomplishing things; 3. Eager to find satisfaction in completing tasks (though this satisfaction also has its positive aspects).

Am I still seeking confidence outside of God? I need to reflect on this today, especially in my work and relationships.

Gratitude:

1. Reading Psalms and praying together at WD. Especially reading the classical Chinese Psalms, the words are truly beautiful;
2. Maintaining a disciplined schedule, able to exercise simply and regularly, feeling relatively comfortable physically;
3. Having better communication with my daughter;
